# Lab Answer Key:  Module 9: Planning and configuring SharePoint Online
# Lab: Configuring SharePoint Online
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring SharePoint Online settings
  
#### Task 1: Configure settings
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. Ensure you are signed in to the 20347A-LON-CL1 virtual machine as  **Beth** with the password you created in Module 1.

2. In LON-CL1, select the desktop, on the taskbar, select  **Microsoft Edge**, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

3. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** (where _yy_xxxxx is your unique Adatum.com number) with the password you created in Module 1.

4. In the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin centers**, and then select  **SharePoint**.

5. On the leftmost side, select  **settings**.

6. Under  **Site Collection Storage Management**, select  **Automatic**.
=======
1. Ensure you are signed in to the LON-CL1 virtual machine as  **Beth Burke**.

2. In Microsoft Edge open  **https://portal.office.com**.

3. Sign in as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** (where _yy_xxxxx is your unique Adatum.com number) with the password you created in Module 1.

4. In the Office 365 portal, select **Admin**.

5. In the Office 365 admin center, expand  **Admin centers**, and then select  **SharePoint**.

5. Select  **settings**.

6. Next to **Site Collection Storage Management**, select  **Automatic**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

7. Scroll down to  **Enterprise Social Collaboration**.

8. Select  **Use Yammer.com service**.

9. Select  **OK**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
10. On the leftmost side, select  **sharing**.
=======
10. Select  **sharing**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

11. Verify that  **Allow sharing to authenticated external users and using anonymous access links** is selected, and then select **OK**.



#### Task 2: Configure user profiles
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. On the leftmost side, select  **user profiles**.
=======
1. Select  **user profiles**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

2. Under **People**, select  **Manage User Profiles**. 

3. In the  **Find profiles** dialog box, type **Ada**, and then select  **Find**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
4. In the result window, in the drop-down list, select  **Ada**.

5. Select  **edit my profile**, and in the  **Manager** box, type **Beth**.

6. Select the  **check names** field and verify that the field displays **Beth Burke**.

7. In the right corner, select  **Save** and **Close**.

8. On the left side, select  **user profiles**.

9. Under  **My Site settings**, select  **Setup My Sites**.
=======
4. In the result window, select the Profile for **Ada Russell**.

5. From the drop-down list under **Account name**, select  **Edit My Profile**.

6. In the  **Manager** box, enter **Beth**.

7. Select the  **check names** field and verify that the field displays **Beth Burke**.

8. Select  **Save and Close**.

9. Select  **user profiles**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

10. Under  **My Site settings**, select  **Setup My Sites**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
11. In the  **Secondary Owner** list, type **Beth**, and then select the  **Checknames** icon.

12. Scroll down, and then select  **OK**.
=======
11. Scroll down to  **My Site Cleanup**.

12. In the  **Secondary Owner** list, type **Beth**, and then select the  **Checknames** icon.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

13. Scroll down, and then select  **OK**.


#### Task 3: Configure apps
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. On the leftmost side, select  **apps**, and then select  **Configure Store Settings**.
=======
1. Select **apps**, and then select  **Configure Store Settings**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

2. Under **Apps for Office from the Store**, select  **No** to disable apps from starting when documents are opened in the browser.

3. Select  **OK**, and then close the browser.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured SharePoint Online service settings.


## Exercise 2: Creating and configuring SharePoint Online site collections
  
#### Task 1: Create a site collection using the SharePoint admin center
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. Open Microsoft Edge and sign in to  **https://portal.office.com** with the user name **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and the password you created in Module 1.

2. In the Office 365 admin center, on the left side menu, select  **Admin centers**, and then select  **SharePoint**.

3. In the leftmost side, select  **Site collections**.

4. On the  **Site Collections** ribbon, select **New**, and then select  **Private Site Collection**.

5. In the  **new site collection** dialog box, in the **Title** dialog box, type **marketing**, in the empty text box, type  **marketing**, and then in the  **administrator** list, type **Beth** and then select the **Check Names** icon. Leave the other settings as suggested. To confirm, select **OK**.
=======
1. In Microsoft Edge, open **https://portal.office.com** and sign-in with the user name **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and the password you created in Module 1.

2. In the Office 365 portal, select **Admin** and in the Office 365 Admin center, expand  **Admin centers**, and then select  **SharePoint**.

3. Select  **site collections**.

4. On the  **Site Collections** ribbon, select **New**, and then select  **Private Site Collection**.

5. In the  **new site collection** dialog box, in the **Title** dialog box, type **marketing**.

6. In the **Type a site collection URL name** box, enter  **marketing**.

7. In the  **administrator** list, type **Beth** and then select the **Check Names** icon. 
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

8. Leave the other settings as suggested and select **OK**.

    >  **Note:** SharePoint Online provisions the new **marketing** site. This process can take a few minutes.

9. After  **marketing** is created, select the **https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing** check box.

<<<<<<< HEAD
7. When the  **marketing** site is selected, on the ribbon, select **Sharing**.

8. In the  **Sharing** dialog box, select **Allow sharing with all external users, and by using anonymous access links**, and then select  **Save**.
=======
10. When the  **marketing** site is selected, on the ribbon, select **Sharing**.

    >  **Note:** It can take a few minutes until the **Sharing** menu on the ribbon is active. You can speed this up by refreshing the page by pressing the F5 key.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

11. In the  **sharing** dialog box, select **Allow sharing with all external users, and by using anonymous access links**, and then select  **Save**.

    >  **Note:** The site settings changes to allow external user sharing. This process is usually done within one minute. Now, external user sharing is enabled and you can use it for this marketing site.


#### Task 2: Create a site collection using Windows PowerShell
  
1. Open a new Microsoft Edge tab and browse to  **http://aka.ms/f04q5o**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
2. On the  **SharePoint Online Management Shell download** page, in the **Select Language** drop-down box, select your appropriate language, and then select **Download**.

3. On the  **Choose the download you want** page, select the check box for the 64-bit version and for the most current file. Select **Next**. 
=======
2. On the  **SharePoint Online Management Shell download** page, select **Download**.

3. On the  **Choose the download you want** page, select the check box for the 64-bit version, and then Select **Next**. 
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

4. If a message about pop-ups appears, select  **Allow once**.

5. In the Internet Explorer dialog box asking whether you want to run or save the file, select  **Save** and then select **Run**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
6. On the  **SharePoint Online Management Shell Setup** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and then select **Install**.

7. If a  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, select **Yes**.

8. When the installation completes, select  **Finish**.

9. Select  **Start**, type  **sharep**, and right-select  **SharePoint Online Management Shell**, and then select  **Run as administrator**.

10. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**.
=======
6. When the **User Account Control** dialog box appears, provide the following credentials and select **Yes**:
    - User name: **Administrator**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

7. On the  **SharePoint Online Management Shell Setup** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and then select **Install**.

8. When the installation completes, select  **Finish**.

9. Select  **Start**, type  **sharep**, and right-click  **SharePoint Online Management Shell**, and then select  **Run as administrator**.

10. When the **User Account Control** dialog box appears, provide the following credentials and select **Yes**:
    - User name: **Administrator**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

11. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (where  _yyxxxxx_ is your unique Adatum domain name):

  ```
  Connect-SPOService -Url https://adatumyyxxxxx-admin.sharepoint.com -credential Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  ```

12. In the  **Enter your credentials** dialog box, in the **Password** box, type the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **OK**.

13. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  New-SPOSite -Url https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/AcctsProj -Owner Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -StorageQuota 500 -NoWait -Template PROJECTSITE#0 -Title "Accounts Project"
  ```

14. Close the Windows PowerShell window.



#### Task 3: Configure permissions on the site collections
  
1. In LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, in the top-right corner, select the ellipsis, and then select  **New** **InPrivate** **Window**.

2. Browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

3. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password you created in Module 1. 

<<<<<<< HEAD
4. In the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin**, and then select  **SharePoint**.
=======
4. In the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**, and in the office 365 Admin center expand **Admin center**, then select  **SharePoint**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

5. On the leftmost side, select  **Site collections**.

6. Select the  **https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing** check box.

<<<<<<< HEAD
7. On the ribbon, select  **owners**, and then select  **Manage Administrators**.

8. In the  **Site** **Collection** **Administrators** text box, type **Ada**, select the ** Check Names** icon, and then select **OK**.

9. Open another InPrivate window, browse to  **https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**, and sign in as  **Ada@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**.

10. On the upper-right corner, select the  **Settings** icon (the wheel icon), and then navigate to **site settings**.
=======
7. On the ribbon, select  **Owners**, and then select  **Manage Administrators**.

8. In the  **Site** **Collection** **Administrators** text box, type **Ada**, select the **Check Names** icon, and then select **OK**.

9. Open another InPrivate window, browse to  **https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**, and sign in as  **Ada@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**.

10. On the upper-right corner, select the  **Settings** icon (the wheel icon), and then navigate to **Site settings**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

11. Under Users and Permissions, select  **Site collection administrators** to open it.

12. Verify that  **Ada** **Russell** appears.

13. Close the Microsoft Edge window.



#### Task 4: Verify access to the site collections
  
1. In LON-CL1, open  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. Browse to  **https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**.

3. Sign in as  **christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password you created in Module 1. 

  >  **Note:** You need permission to access this site, and you need to send an access request for permission to view the site.

<<<<<<< HEAD
4. In the  **You need permission to access this site** dialog box, type **Please enable** **Beth's access to this site**, and then select  **Request Access**.
=======
4. In the  **You need permission to access this site** dialog box, type **Please enable my access to this site**, and then select  **Request Access**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

5. Close Microsoft Edge, and then reopen it.

6. Browse to  **https://Adatumyy _xxxx_.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**.

7. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

8. In the top-right corner, select the  **Settings** icon (the wheel icon), and then select **Site settings**.

9. Under  **User and Permissions**, select  **Site permissions**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
10. Select  **Showaccess requests and invitations**.

11. Verify that Beth's request is listed, and select  **Approve**.
=======
10. Select  **Show access requests and invitations**.

11. Verify that Christie's request is listed, and select  **Approve**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

12. Select  **Site Settings**, and then select  **Site permissions**.

13. Select  **marketing Members**.

14. Verify that Christie's account is listed. 

<<<<<<< HEAD
15. Select  **New**, and then select  **Add Users**.
=======
15. Select  **New**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

16. In the text box at the top, type  **Perry**, and then select  **Perry Brill**.

17. Select  **Share**.

18. Close Microsoft Edge.

19. Open Microsoft Edge and connect to  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**.

20. Sign in as  **Abbi@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**. 

21. Verify that you can access the site.

22. Close Microsoft Edge, and then reopen it.

23. Browse to  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**.

24. Sign in as  **Perry@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**. 

25. Verify that you can access the site.

26. Close Microsoft Edge.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and configured SharePoint Online site collections.


## Exercise 3: Configuring and verifying external user sharing
  
#### Task 1: Configure global settings for external user sharing
  
1. In LON-CL1, open  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. Browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

3. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password you created in Module 1. 

4. In the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin**, and then select  **SharePoint**.

5. On the leftmost side, select  **sharing**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
6. Select  **Allow sharing to authenticated users and anonymous access links,** and then select **OK**.
=======
6. Verify that **Allow sharing to authenticated users and anonymous access links** is selected, and then select **OK**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e



#### Task 2: Configure a site collection for external user sharing
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. In Microsoft Edge, select  **Site Collections**.
=======
1. In Microsoft Edge, select  **site collections**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

2. Select the  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/AcctsProj** check box.

3. On the ribbon, in the  **Manage** section, select **Sharing**.

4. In the  **Sharing** dialog box, select **Allow sharing with all external users, and by using anonymous access links**.

5. Select  **Save**.

6. Wait for the operation to complete, which might take about 5 minutes.

7. Close Microsoft Edge.

8. Open Microsoft Edge and browse to  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/AcctsProj**.

9. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

10. In the top-right corner, select  **SHARE**.

11. In the  **Share 'Accounts Project'** dialog box, type in the email address of the Microsoft account you used to set up Office 365.

12. In the text box, type  **You can now access this shared site on** **Adatum** **Publishing**.

13. Select  **Share**.

14. Browse to  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**

15. In the left navigation pane, select  **Documents**.
<<<<<<< HEAD

16. Select  **New**, and then select  **Word document**.

17. In the Word Online window, type some text, and then wait to check if  **Saved** appears in the document title, and then select the **marketing** link.

18. Select **documents** and in the document list, select the ellipsis button ( **...**) next to the document you created, and then select  **Share**.

19. Make sure **Anyone with a link can view and edit** is selected, and  select  **Copy Link**.

20. Select  **Copy** and, if prompted select ** Allow**.

21. Select  **Close**.

22. In the SharePoint Online window, select the apps icon, and then select  **Mail**.
=======

    > Close any dialog that appears.

16. Select  **New**, and then select  **Word document**.

17. In the Word Online window, type some text, and then wait to check if  **Saved** appears in the document title.

18. Select **Share**.

19. Make sure **Anyone with a link can view and edit** is selected, and  select  **Copy Link**.

20. Select  **Copy** and, if prompted select **Allow**.

21. Select  **Close**.

22. In the SharePoint Online window, select the apps icon, and then select  **Outlook**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

23. If prompted, select your language and time zone, and then select  **Save**.

24. Select  **New**.

25. In the  **To** box, type the email address for your Microsoft account, and then in the **Subject** box, type **Shared Document**.

26. In the message box, right-click, and then select  **Paste**.

27. Select  **SEND**.

28. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 3: Verify external user sharing
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge and browse to  **https://outlook.com**

2. Sign in with your Microsoft account.

  >  **Note:** The Inbox should show two emails from Beth Burke. If the messages are not in the Inbox, look in the Junk folder.

3. Open the message that has the subject:  **Beth Burke wants to share Accounts Projects**. 

4. Select the  **Accounts Project** link in the email.

5. Select  **Microsoft Account**. Verify that you can access the site. 

<<<<<<< HEAD
6. Close the browser tab. In your inbox, open the second invitation email message with the subject of  **Beth Burke wants to share** **the document**.
=======
6. Close the browser tab. In your inbox, open the second invitation email message with the subject of  **Shared Document**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

7. Select the  **Document** link.

  >  **Note:** You are redirected directly to the Word Document. Word Online opens and shows the document.

8. Verify that you can access the Word document and then select  **Edit in Browser**. 

9. Add some text in this document. 

10. Close Microsoft Edge.

11. Leave the virtual machines running for the next lab.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured a new site collection for external user sharing, and you should have shared a site and a document with external users.


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  