# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: Planning and managing Exchange Online recipients and permissions
# Lab: Managing Exchange Online recipients and permissions
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring Exchange Online recipients
  
#### Task 1: Create user mailboxes
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge.

2. In the address bar, type  **https://portal.office.com/**, and then press Enter.

3. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

4. On the Office 365 home page, select  **Admin**.

5. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select  **Users** and then select **Active Users**.

6. Above the list of users, select  **Add a user**. 

7. On the  **New user** page, enter the following information, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number:
    - First name:  **Martina**
    - Last name:  **Blair**
    - Display name:  **Martina Blair**
    - User name:  **Martina**
    - Domain:  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Location: **United Kingdom**

8. Expand the  **Password** area, select the following options, and then select **Add**: 
    - Select  **Let me create the password** , and then type the password you created in Module 1
    - Make this user change their password when they first sign in:  **Not selected**
    - Roles:  **User (no administrator access)**
    - Product licenses:  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**

9. On the  **User was added** page, select **Send email and close**.

10. Repeat steps 6 to 9 to add the following additional users: 
    - **Matt Villagomez** (since Matt@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com is in use, use the username **MattV**)
    - **Olivia Emerson**
    - **Kendra Sexton**

11. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the  **Admin centers** menu, select **Exchange**.

12. In the Exchange admin center, select  **recipients**. 

    > **Note:** It might take a few minutes for the mailboxes to appear. Select the refresh icon periodically until they do.


#### Task 2: Connect to Exchange Online with Windows PowerShell
  
1. Select **Start** and type **powershell**. 

2. Right-click **Windows PowerShell** and select **Run as administrator**.

3. In the User Account Control dialog, provide the following credentials:
    - User name:  **Administrator**
    - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

    >  **Note:** You can copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine.

4. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    $credential = Get-Credential
    ```

5. In the  **Enter Credentials** dialog box, in the **User name** box, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number.

6. In the  **Password** box, type the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **OK**.

7. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    Connect-MsolService -Credential $credential
    ```

8. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    $ExchangeSession = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri "https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/" -Credential $credential -Authentication "Basic" -AllowRedirection
    ```

9. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    Import-PSSession $ExchangeSession
    ```

10. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    Get-AcceptedDomain
    ```

    > **Note:** This command returns the list of accepted domains and verifies that you can connect to your Office 365 subscription.


#### Task 3: Create groups and assign members
  
1. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter to create the  **Operations** Office 365 group with **Olivia** as a member:

    ```
    New-UnifiedGroup -DisplayName Operations -Members Olivia
    ```

2. Repeat step 1 to add the following additional groups and members: 
    - **Managers**
      - Members:  **Martina**
    - **Development**
      - Members:  **MattV**
    - **Sales**
      - Members:  **Kendra**


#### Task 4: Create resource mailboxes
  
1. In Microsoft Edge, in the Exchange Admin center, in  **recipients**, select  **resources**. 

2. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    New-Mailbox -Name "Conference Room" -Room
    ```

3. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    Set-CalendarProcessing "Conference Room" -AutomateProcessing AutoAccept
    ```

4. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    New-Mailbox -Name "Demonstration Laptop" -Equipment
    ```

5. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    Set-CalendarProcessing "Demonstration Laptop" -AutomateProcessing AutoAccept
    ```

    > **Note:** If you receive an error running the **Set-CalendarProcessing** cmdlet for either of these objects, wait a few moments and repeat.

6. Switch to Microsoft Edge, and in the Exchange Admin center, select  **Refresh**. You should be able to see both resources.

7. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    Set-Mailbox "Conference Room" -ResourceCapacity "25"
    ```

8. Switch to Microsoft Edge, and in the Exchange Admin center, select  **Conference Room**. You should be able to see the Capacity you configured in the details pane on the right. If not, select  **Refresh**.



#### Task 5: Configure additional Exchange Online recipients
  
1. On LON-CL1, browse to  **C:\\Labfiles**, and the open  **ExternalContacts.csv**.

2. Review the file contents, and then close Excel. 

3. In Microsoft Edge, in the Exchange admin center, select  **contacts**. 

4. Switch to Windows PowerShell. 

5. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    CD C:\Labfiles
    ```

    > **Note:** You can copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine.

6. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    Import-Csv .\ExternalContacts.csv | ForEach-Object {New-MailContact -Name $_.Name -DisplayName $_.Name -ExternalEmailAddress $_.ExternalEmailAddress -FirstName $_.FirstName -LastName $_.LastName}
    ```

7. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    $contacts = Import-CSV .\ExternalContacts.csv
    ```

8. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    $contacts | ForEach {Set-Contact $_.Name -StreetAddress $_.StreetAddress -City $_.City -StateorProvince $_.StateorProvince -PostalCode $_.PostalCode -Phone $_.Phone -MobilePhone $_.MobilePhone -Pager $_.Pager -HomePhone $_.HomePhone -Company $_.Company -Title $_.Title -OtherTelephone $_.OtherTelephone -Department $_.Department -Fax $_.Fax -Initials $_.Initials -Notes $_.Notes -Office $_.Office -Manager $_.Manager}
    ```

9. In Microsoft Edge, in the Exchange Admin center, in  **contacts**, select  **Refresh**. You can see the newly created objects.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have created and configured Microsoft Exchange Online recipients.


## Exercise 2: Configuring role-based access control
  
#### Task 1: Assign users to built-in role groups
  
1. In the Exchange admin center, select  **permissions**. 

2. On the  **admin roles** tab, select **Organization Management**, and then select  **Edit**. 

3. In the Role Group window, under  **Members**, select the  **+** icon.

4. In the Select Members window, select  **Olivia**, select  **add\-\>**, and then select  **OK**.

5. In the Role Group window, select  **Save**.



#### Task 2: Create a new admin role and assign a user to it
  
1. Switch to Windows PowerShell. 

    >  **Note:** If possible, use the paste functionality provided by the hosting server to copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine.

2. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command: 

    ```
    Enable-OrganizationCustomization
    ```

    ```
    New-RoleGroup -Name BranchOfficeAdmins -roles "Mail Recipients", "Distribution Groups", "Move Mailboxes", "Mail Recipient Creation"
    ```

3. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    Add-RoleGroupMember "BranchOfficeAdmins" -Member Martina
    ```

4. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    Get-RoleGroupMember "BranchOfficeAdmins"
    ```

5. Switch to Edge, and then in the Exchange admin center, select  **Refresh**. Ensure that you can see the new BranchOfficeAdmins role group.



#### Task 3: Create a new role assignment policy
  
1. In Microsoft Edge, in the Exchange Admin center, select  **user roles**. 

2. Switch to Windows PowerShell. 

    >  **Note:** If possible, use the paste functionality provided by the hosting server to copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine..

3. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    New-RoleAssignmentPolicy "Limited Mailbox Configuration" -Roles MyBaseOptions,MyAddressInformation,MyDisplayName
    ```

4. To change the default role assignment policy for new mailboxes, in the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    Set-RoleAssignmentPolicy "Limited Mailbox Configuration" -IsDefault
    ```

5. When prompted, type  **Y**, and then press Enter.

6. In the Exchange admin center, select  **Refresh**. You can see the new role assignment policy.

7. Type the following command, press Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell.

    ```
    Remove-PSSession $ExchangeSession
    ```


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
- When you have finished the lab, leave all of the virtual machines running.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured delegated administration of your Exchange Online organization.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
