Instructions/20347A_LAB_05.md, before:

﻿# Module 5: Planning and deploying Office 365 ProPlus
# Lab: Managing Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
### Scenario
  
Most users in your organization are using Office 2013 on their desktops. As part of the Office 365 pilot project, you would like to upgrade the clients to Office 365 ProPlus to take advantage of the new features available in Office 2016. 

The project steering committee has not yet decided whether they will allow users to install Office 365 ProPlus, or whether they will use a centralized installation mechanism. As part of the pilot project, you need to evaluate each option for deploying and managing Office 365 ProPlus.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Prepare an Office 365 ProPlus managed installation.
- Manage user-driven Office 365 ProPlus installations.
- Manage centralized Office 365 ProPlus installations.

  >  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-CL1**,  **20347A-LON-CL3**,  **20347A-LON-CL4,** **20347A-LON-DC1, 20347A-LON-DS1**

Username:  **Adatum\\Administrator, Adatum\\Beth, Adatum\\Beth**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYYXXXXX.onmicrosoft.com**, use your unique  **AdatumYYXXXXX** Office 365 name displayed in the Lab Page of your web browser.
- Where you see references to  **AdatumYYXXXX.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **AdatumYYXXXX** with your unique hostdomain.com Name displayed in the online lab portal.


 This lab requires the following virtual machines: (use only the VMs required for your lab)

- LON-DC1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL3

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL4

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Preparing an Office 365 ProPlus managed installation
  
### Scenario
  
One of the Office 365 ProPlus installation options that you are evaluating is using a managed deployment. To start, you will download and install the Office Deployment Tool, and start the download for Office 365 ProPlus.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Download the Office 365 deployment tool

2. Modify an Office 365 ProPlus installation



#### Task 1: Download the Office 365 deployment tool
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, create a network shared folder at the root of the C: drive with the name  **Office16**. All users should have  **Read Only** rights.

2. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as  **Beth@AdatumYYXXXXX.hostdomain.com**, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. From the Office 365 admin center, use the  **Office software download settings** page to download Office Deployment Tool software (version 2016).

4. Review the settings and options of Office Deployment Tool before downloading it.

5. Run the install of Office Deployment Tool install.

6. Install to the Office16 shared folder.

7. Confirm that the files successfully installed.



#### Task 2: Modify an Office 365 ProPlus installation
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, back up the Office Deployment Tool  **configuration.xml** file in the **C:\\Office 16** folder created earlier by saving another copy.

2. By using  **Notepad**, open the  **configuration.xml** file and edit the first Add line after &lt;Configuration&gt; to read **&lt;Add SourcePath="\\\\LON-CL1\\Office16\\" OfficeClientEdition="32" Branch="Current"&gt;**.

3. Configuration the installation to be silent.

4. Remove unused configuration settings and comments.

5. Comment out the  **VisioProRetail** from the code and save the file.

6. From File Explorer, open a command window.

7. Type  **Setup /?** to see options available.

8. Type  **setup.exe /download \\\\LON-CL1\\Office16\\AdatumConfiguration.xml** to start the download of Office 365 ProPlus.

9. Verify that the download has started in File Explorer.


>  **Result**: You will have downloaded a copy of the Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus install for managed deployment to a shared folder. You will also download and install the Office Deployment Tool on the same machine.


## Exercise 2: Managing user-driven Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
### Scenario
  
As part of the pilot project, you need to understand the process of installing Office 365 ProPlus directly from the Office 365 portal. You must also explore options for managing the installation. A. Datum Corporation plans to use a combination of user-driven and managed deployments, depending on the employment relationship and working practices of individual users. Associates, those who have brought their own devices, and remote employees will all install Office 365 ProPlus manually from the Office 365 website. Beth, the administrator, will then determine what happens to users when she activates and deactivates Office 365 ProPlus subscriptions. She will also explore the different ways licensing effects the user.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Managing user rights to install Office 365 ProPlus

2. Installing Office 365 ProPlus from the Office 365 portal

3. Managing office licenses

4. Reactivating Office 365 ProPlus



#### Task 1: Managing user rights to install Office 365 ProPlus
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, if required, connect to the **Office 365 admin center** as **Beth** with the password you created in Module 1 to assign various combinations of licensing to Office 365 users.

2. Edit user  **Abbi Skinner** by adding **Office 365 Enterprise E5** license using a location of **United Kingdom**, but removing the Office 365 ProPlus option.

3. Edit user **Beth Burke** and assign an **Office 365 Enterprise E5** license using the location of the **United Kingdom**.

4. Repeat the previous step for  **Cai Chu**.

5. In the Office 365 admin center, on the  **Settings** menu, access the **Apps** page.

6. On the  **Software download settings** page, disable downloads for Office 2016.

7. Sign out, and then sign in as Abbi Skinner with the username  **Abbi@AdatumYYXXXXX.hostdomain.com** and the password **Pa55w.rd**.

8. Access Abbi's Office 365 settings and verify that she does not have the option to install the Office 365 apps. 

9. Sign out as Abbi Skinner, and then sign in as  Beth with the username **beth@AdatumYYXXXXX.hostdomain.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

10. Navigate to the  **Office 365 settings** page, and then select **Install software**.

11. Note that the users looked similar, but Abbi is not assigned a license. Beth has a license, but Beth deactivated version 2016 for all users.

12. Before signing out, verify that  **Phone &amp; tablet** apps are available.

13. Sign out as Beth and close the browser.

14. Open a new browser, and then sign in to the Office 365 environment with the administrator Beth's credentials and password.

15. Go back to the  **Office 365 admin center** and enable downloads for Office 2016.

16. Sign out of Office 365 as Beth and sign in as **Abbi**.

17. Verify that Abbi does not have any software to install, due to licensing.

18. Switch to  **LON-CL3** and sign in as **Beth**.

19. Open a browser and go to  **https://portal.office.com**.

20. Sign in as **Beth** and navigate to the  **Install software** page.

21. Do not install, but notice what is available.

22. Notice how to change from 32-bit to 64-bit options on the  **Office 365 ProPlus** advanced menu.

23. You will install the software in the next lab.



#### Task 2: Installing Office 365 ProPlus from the Office 365 portal
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the  **Office 365** portal, select the appropriate language and version, and then install on the local computer.

2. Make sure to accept licensing agreements and decline reporting options.

3. Check on the status of the download from the taskbar.

4. When installed, open  **Word 2016** from the **Windows start** menu.

5. In  **Word**, in the upper-right corner, switch accounts by signing out as Beth and adding the account for Beth.

6. Create a document with some content and save to an  **Adatum Publishing Team Site** folder in the **Documents** folder with the file name **Meeting Agenda**.

7. Switch back to Beth's Office 365 session in the browser.

8. Notice the new option of  **Manage installs** on the **Install software** page.

9. Check the  **Tools &amp; add-ins** page to see what is installable.



#### Task 3: Managing office licenses
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, sign in as **Beth Burke**, the administrator.

2. From the  **Office 365 admin center**, disable Beth Burke's license to Office 365 ProPlus.

3. Sign out of Office 365 as Beth and sign in as **Beth**.

4. Navigate to the  **Install software** page to confirm that Office is no longer available for download. What will happen to the Office software that is already installed?



#### Task 4: Reactivating Office 365 ProPlus
  
- On  **LON-CL3**, sign in to Office 365 as **Beth**, the administrator, and then reactivate Beth Burke's Office 365 ProPlus software license.


>  **Result**: When completed, you should be able to activate Office 365 ProPlus for self-service installations. You should also be able to set licensing options correctly for end users so that deployment and installation is possible.


## Exercise 3: Managing centralized Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
### Scenario
  
In addition to the user-driven installations, you also need to evaluate using a centralized means to install Office 365 ProPlus

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure a Group Policy Object (GPO) to distribute the custom installation

2. Verifying the installation



#### Task 1: Configure a Group Policy Object (GPO) to distribute the custom installation
  
1. Using an administrative sign in on the  **LON-DC1** server, use **Server Manager** tools to create a new organizational unit (OU) named **Adatum_Computers**.

2. Move  **LON-CL4** to the new OU.

3. Open  **Group Policy Management** from **Server Manager**.

4. Create a Group Policy Object (GPO) linked to the newly created  **Adatum_Computers**.

5. Name the GPO  **DeployO365**.

6. By using the  **Group Policy Management Editor**, expand  **Policies**, expand  **Windows Settings**, and then open  **Scripts (Startup/Shutdown)**.

7. Create a new text document with the following line:  **\\\\LON-CL1\\Office16\\setup.exe /configure \\\\LON-CL1\\Office16\\AdatumConfiguration.xml**.

8. Save the file as  **DeployO365.cmd**.

9. Delete  **New Text Document**.

10. In Group Policy Management Editor, in the  **Startup Properties** dialog box, add a script.

11. Add the  **DeployO365.cmd** file, and then select **OK.**

>  **Note:** Where and how do you think this might start up?


#### Task 2: Verifying the installation
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, sign in as **Beth Burke**.

2. Open the Command Prompt as Adatum\\Beth and run  **gpupdate /force**.

3. Restart  **LON-CL4**.

4. Wait five minutes after the restart to allow the Group Policy settings to take effect.

5. Sign in as **Beth** and navigate to the start menu.

6. Verify that  **Microsoft Office 2016 Tools** folder installed.

7. Open  **Word 2016** and activate with Beth's Office 365 credentials.

8. In the  **First things first** dialog box, select **No thanks**, select  **Accept**, and then close the dialog box.

9. Open a blank document, type some text, and then save it.

10. In  **Task Manager**, check the processes, details, and services for  **Click-to-Run**.

11. Close all open programs.


>  **Result**: You will have enabled centralized managed deployment of Office 365 ProPlus and implemented a standardized Microsoft Office configuration by using one version of Office.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why do you need to edit the configuration.xml file when preparing to use managed deployments of Office 365 ProPlus?

 Select here to enter text.

**Question** 
How can you verify that the Click-to-Run service is running?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

Commit message:

Updated Lab 5 per designer updates
Added steps to review and set Channel update settings

Instructions/20347A_LAB_05.md, after:

﻿# Module 5: Planning and deploying Office 365 ProPlus
# Lab: Managing Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
### Scenario
  
Most users in your organization are using Office 2013 on their desktops. As part of the Office 365 pilot project, you would like to upgrade the clients to Office 365 ProPlus to take advantage of the new features available in Office 2016. 

The project steering committee has not yet decided whether they will allow users to install Office 365 ProPlus, or whether they will use a centralized installation mechanism. As part of the pilot project, you need to evaluate each option for deploying and managing Office 365 ProPlus.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Prepare an Office 365 ProPlus managed installation.
- Manage user-driven Office 365 ProPlus installations.
- Manage centralized Office 365 ProPlus installations.

  >  **Note**: The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-CL1**,  **20347A-LON-CL3**,  **20347A-LON-CL4,** **20347A-LON-DC1, 20347A-LON-DS1**

Username:  **Adatum\\Administrator, Adatum\\Beth, Adatum\\Beth**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYYXXXXX.onmicrosoft.com**, use your unique  **AdatumYYXXXXX** Office 365 name displayed in the Lab Page of your web browser.
- Where you see references to  **AdatumYYXXXX.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **AdatumYYXXXX** with your unique hostdomain.com Name displayed in the online lab portal.


 This lab requires the following virtual machines: (use only the VMs required for your lab)

- LON-DC1
  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1
  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1
  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL3
  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL4
  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Preparing an Office 365 ProPlus managed installation
  
### Scenario
  
One of the Office 365 ProPlus installation options that you are evaluating is using a managed deployment. To start, you will download and install the Office Deployment Tool, and start the download for Office 365 ProPlus. You will modify the installation to install and provide updates to use the Targeted (early semi-annual) channel.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Download the Office 365 deployment tool

2. Modify Office 365 ProPlus installation settings



#### Task 1: Download the Office 365 deployment tool
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, create a network shared folder at the root of the C: drive with the name  **Office16**. All users should have  **Read Only** rights.

2. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as  **Beth@AdatumYYXXXXX.hostdomain.com**, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. From the Office 365 admin center, use the  **Office software download settings** page to download Office Deployment Tool software (version 2016).

4. Review the settings and options of Office Deployment Tool before downloading it.

5. Run the install of Office Deployment Tool install.

6. Install to the Office16 shared folder.

7. Confirm that the files successfully installed.



#### Task 2: Modify Office 365 ProPlus installation settings
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, back up the Office Deployment Tool  **configuration.xml** file in the **C:\\Office 16** folder created earlier by saving another copy.

2. By using  **Notepad**, open the  **configuration.xml** file and edit the first Add line after &lt;Configuration&gt; to read **&lt;Add SourcePath="\\\\LON-CL1\\Office16\\" OfficeClientEdition="32" Branch="Current"&gt;**.

3. Configuration the installation to be silent.

4. Remove unused configuration settings and comments.

5. Comment out the  **VisioProRetail** from the code and save the file.

6. From File Explorer, open a command window.

7. Type  **Setup /?** to see options available.

8. Type  **setup.exe /download \\\\LON-CL1\\Office16\\AdatumConfiguration.xml** to start the download of Office 365 ProPlus.

9. Verify that the download has started in File Explorer.


>  **Result**: You will have downloaded a copy of the Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus install for managed deployment to a shared folder. You will also download and install the Office Deployment Tool on the same machine.


## Exercise 2: Managing user-driven Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
### Scenario
  
As part of the pilot project, you need to understand the process of installing Office 365 ProPlus directly from the Office 365 portal. You must also explore options for managing the installation. A. Datum Corporation plans to use a combination of user-driven and managed deployments, depending on the employment relationship and working practices of individual users. Associates, those who have brought their own devices, and remote employees will all install Office 365 ProPlus manually from the Office 365 website. Beth, the administrator, will then determine what happens to users when she activates and deactivates Office 365 ProPlus subscriptions. She will also explore the different ways licensing effects the user.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Managing user rights to install Office 365 ProPlus

2. Installing Office 365 ProPlus from the Office 365 portal

3. Managing office licenses

4. Reactivating Office 365 ProPlus



#### Task 1: Managing user rights to install Office 365 ProPlus
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, if required, connect to the **Office 365 admin center** as **Beth** with the password you created in Module 1 to assign various combinations of licensing to Office 365 users.

2. Edit user  **Abbi Skinner** by adding **Office 365 Enterprise E5** license using a location of **United Kingdom**, but removing the Office 365 ProPlus option.

3. Edit user **Beth Burke** and assign an **Office 365 Enterprise E5** license using the location of the **United Kingdom**.

4. Repeat the previous step for  **Cai Chu**.

5. In the Office 365 admin center, on the  **Settings** menu, access the **Apps** page.

6. On the  **Software download settings** page, disable downloads for Office 2016.

7. Sign out, and then sign in as Abbi Skinner with the username  **Abbi@AdatumYYXXXXX.hostdomain.com** and the password **Pa55w.rd**.

8. Access Abbi's Office 365 settings and verify that she does not have the option to install the Office 365 apps. 

9. Sign out as Abbi Skinner, and then sign in as  Beth with the username **beth@AdatumYYXXXXX.hostdomain.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

10. Navigate to the  **Office 365 settings** page, and then select **Install software**.

11. Note that the users looked similar, but Abbi is not assigned a license. Beth has a license, but Beth deactivated version 2016 for all users.

12. Before signing out, verify that  **Phone &amp; tablet** apps are available.

13. Sign out as Beth and close the browser.

14. Open a new browser, and then sign in to the Office 365 environment with the administrator Beth's credentials and password.

15. Go back to the  **Office 365 admin center** and enable downloads for Office 2016.

16. Sign out of Office 365 as Beth and sign in as **Abbi**.

17. Verify that Abbi does not have any software to install, due to licensing.

18. Switch to  **LON-CL3** and sign in as **Beth**.

19. Open a browser and go to  **https://portal.office.com**.

20. Sign in as **Beth** and navigate to the  **Install software** page.

21. Do not install, but notice what is available.

22. Notice how to change from 32-bit to 64-bit options on the  **Office 365 ProPlus** advanced menu.

23. You will install the software in the next lab.



#### Task 2: Installing Office 365 ProPlus from the Office 365 portal
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the  **Office 365** portal, select the appropriate language and version, and then install on the local computer.

2. Make sure to accept licensing agreements and decline reporting options.

3. Check on the status of the download from the taskbar.

4. When installed, open  **Word 2016** from the **Windows start** menu.

5. In  **Word**, in the upper-right corner, switch accounts by signing out as Beth and adding the account for Beth.

6. Create a document with some content and save to an  **Adatum Publishing Team Site** folder in the **Documents** folder with the file name **Meeting Agenda**.

7. Switch back to Beth's Office 365 session in the browser.

8. Notice the new option of  **Manage installs** on the **Install software** page.

9. Check the  **Tools &amp; add-ins** page to see what is installable.



#### Task 3: Managing office licenses
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, sign in as **Beth Burke**, the administrator.

2. From the  **Office 365 admin center**, disable Beth Burke's license to Office 365 ProPlus.

3. Sign out of Office 365 as Beth and sign in as **Beth**.

4. Navigate to the  **Install software** page to confirm that Office is no longer available for download. What will happen to the Office software that is already installed?



#### Task 4: Reactivating Office 365 ProPlus
  
- On  **LON-CL3**, sign in to Office 365 as **Beth**, the administrator, and then reactivate Beth Burke's Office 365 ProPlus software license.


>  **Result**: When completed, you should be able to activate Office 365 ProPlus for self-service installations. You should also be able to set licensing options correctly for end users so that deployment and installation is possible.


## Exercise 3: Managing centralized Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
### Scenario
  
In addition to the user-driven installations, you also need to evaluate using a centralized means to install Office 365 ProPlus

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure a Group Policy Object (GPO) to distribute the custom installation

2. Verifying the installation



#### Task 1: Configure a Group Policy Object (GPO) to distribute the custom installation
  
1. Using an administrative sign in on the  **LON-DC1** server, use **Server Manager** tools to create a new organizational unit (OU) named **Adatum_Computers**.

2. Move  **LON-CL4** to the new OU.

3. Open  **Group Policy Management** from **Server Manager**.

4. Create a Group Policy Object (GPO) linked to the newly created  **Adatum_Computers**.

5. Name the GPO  **DeployO365**.

6. By using the  **Group Policy Management Editor**, expand  **Policies**, expand  **Windows Settings**, and then open  **Scripts (Startup/Shutdown)**.

7. Create a new text document with the following line:  **\\\\LON-CL1\\Office16\\setup.exe /configure \\\\LON-CL1\\Office16\\AdatumConfiguration.xml**.

8. Save the file as  **DeployO365.cmd**.

9. Delete  **New Text Document**.

10. In Group Policy Management Editor, in the  **Startup Properties** dialog box, add a script.

11. Add the  **DeployO365.cmd** file, and then select **OK.**

>  **Note:** Where and how do you think this might start up?


#### Task 2: Verifying the installation
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, sign in as **Beth Burke**.

2. Open the Command Prompt as Adatum\\Beth and run  **gpupdate /force**.

3. Restart  **LON-CL4**.

4. Wait five minutes after the restart to allow the Group Policy settings to take effect.

5. Sign in as **Beth** and navigate to the start menu.

6. Verify that  **Microsoft Office 2016 Tools** folder installed.

7. Open  **Word 2016** and activate with Beth's Office 365 credentials.

8. In the  **First things first** dialog box, select **No thanks**, select  **Accept**, and then close the dialog box.

9. Open a blank document, type some text, and then save it.

10. In  **Task Manager**, check the processes, details, and services for  **Click-to-Run**.

11. Close all open programs.


>  **Result**: You will have enabled centralized managed deployment of Office 365 ProPlus and implemented a standardized Microsoft Office configuration by using one version of Office.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why do you need to edit the configuration.xml file when preparing to use managed deployments of Office 365 ProPlus?

 Select here to enter text.

**Question** 
How can you verify that the Click-to-Run service is running?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
