# Lab Answer Key:  Module 8: Planning and deploying Skype for Business Online
# Lab: Configuring Skype for Business Online 
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring Skype for Business Online organization settings
  
#### Task 1: Enable Skype Meeting Broadcast for the organization
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688**.

2. On the  **Skype for Business Online, Windows PowerShell Module** page, select **Download**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Run**.

3. Select  **I agree to the license terms and conditions**, and then select  **Install**.

4. If a  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, select **Yes**.

5. Select **Restart** and wait for LON-CL1 to restart.

6. Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

7. After the installation completes, in the **Skype for Business Online, Windows PowerShell Module** dialog, select  **Close**.
=======
1. On LON-CL1, on the taskbar, select  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. In Microsoft Edge, in the  **search** box, type **https://portal.office.com**, and press Enter.

3. At the login page, sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

4. To open the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin**.

5. In the Office 365 admin center, on menu on the left, in  **Admin centers**, select  **Skype for Business**.

6. Select **online meetings** and then select **broadcast meetings**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

7. Under **Meeting Settings and Access Policies**, verify that the following settings are selected, and select **Save**:
    - **Enable Skype Meeting Broadcast**
    - **Allow organizers to schedule anonymous meetings**
    -  **Allow broadcast meetings to be recorded**



#### Task 2: Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
2. In the search results, right-select  **Windows PowerShell**, and then select  **Run as administrator**.

3. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**.
=======
2. On the  **Skype for Business Online, Windows PowerShell Module** page, select **Download**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Run**.

3. Select  **I agree to the license terms and conditions**, and then select  **Install**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

4. When the **User Account Control** dialog box appears, provide the following credentials and select **Yes**:
    - User name: **Administrator**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

5. Select **Restart** and wait for LON-CL1 to restart.

<<<<<<< HEAD
5. In the  **credentials** dialog box, enter the user name **Beth@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** and the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **OK**.
=======
6. Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

7. Close the Skype for Business dialog if it opens.

8. Close the Microsoft Edge window if it open.


#### Task 3: Configure the organization settings for Skype for Business Online
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the search box on the taskbar, type  **PowerShell**.

2. In the search results, right-click  **Windows PowerShell**, and then select  **Run as administrator**.

3. When the **User Account Control** dialog box appears, provide the following credentials and select **Yes**:
    - User name: **Administrator**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    $cred = Get-Credential
    ```

5. In the  **credentials** dialog box, enter the user name **Beth@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** and the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **OK**.

6. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    $SfBSession = New-CSOnlineSession -Credential $cred
    ```

7. Type  **Y** and press Enter.

8. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Import-PSSession $SfBSession
    ```

9. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Set-CSPrivacyConfiguration -EnablePrivacyMode $True
    ```

    > Note the warning that you receive about enabling client version checking.

10. To disable push notifications for Apple devices, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Set-CSPushNotificationConfiguration -EnableApplePushNotification $False
    ```

11. To verify the privacy notification settings, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Get-CSPrivacyConfiguration
    ```

    You should see the following output:
      - Identity:  **Global**
      - EnablePrivacyMode:  **True**
      - AutoInitiateContacts:  **True**
      - PublishLocationDataDefault:  **True**
      - DisplayPublishedPhotoDefault:  **True**

12. To verify the push notification settings, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Get-CSPushNotificationConfiguration
    ```

13. To allow users to communicate with public Skype users, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowPublicUsers $True
    ```

14. To allow users to communicate with federated partners, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowFederatedUsers $True
    ```

15. To enable communication with all federated partners except for litware.com, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command:

    ```
    $AllDomains = New-CsEdgeAllowAllKnownDomains
    ```

    ```
    $BlockedDomain = New-CsEdgeDomainPattern -Domain "litware.com"
    ```

    ```
    Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowedDomains $AllDomains -BlockedDomains $BlockedDomain
    ```

    ```
    Get-CsTenantFederationConfiguration
    ```

<<<<<<< HEAD
6. If needed, sign in as  **Beth@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

7. On the  **Office 365** home page, select the **Admin** tile.

8. In the Microsoft Office 365 admin center, in the menu to the left, select  **Admin centers**, and then select  **Skype for Business**.

9. On the left-hand side, select  **organization**.
=======
16. In Microsoft Edge, in the  **search** box, type **https://portal.office.com**, and press Enter.

17. At the login page, sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

18. To open the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin**.

19. In the Office 365 admin center, expand  **Admin centers**, select  **Skype for Business**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

20. Select  **organization**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
11. Under mobile phone notifications, verify that  **Apple** **Push Notification Service** is not enabled, and then select **external communications**.
=======
21. On the  **general** page, under **presence privacy mode**, verify that **Display presence information only to a user's contacts** is selected.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

22. Under mobile phone notifications, verify that  **Apple Push Notification Service** is not enabled, and then select **external communications**.

23. Under external access, verify that  **On except for blocked domains** is selected.

24. Verify that under blocked or allowed domains,  **litware.com** is listed.



#### Task 4: Configure the meeting invitation settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Skype for Business admin center, select  **online meetings** and then select **meeting invitation**.

2. In the  **Help URL** text box, type **http://help.adatum.com**.

3. In the  **Footer text** text box, type **Sample legal disclaimer**. Select  **save**.

4. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Get-CsMeetingConfiguration
    ```

5. Verify that the  **Help URL** and **CustomFooterText** display the correct information.

6. In Windows PowerShell, type the following command, press Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell.

    ```
    Remove-PSSession $SfBSession
    ```



#### Task 5: Validate the meeting invitation settings
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. On LON-CL1, select  **Start**, type ** Skype**, and then open Skype for Business 2016.

2. In the Skype for Business window, select  **Change**. In the  **Sign-in address** box, type **Beth@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** and then select **OK**.

3. Type the password you created in Module 1 for password and then select **Signin**. Select  **Yes**.
=======
1. On LON-CL1, select  **Start**, type **Skype**, and then select **Skype for Business 2016**.

2. In the Skype for Business window, select  **Change**. In the  **Sign-in address** box, type **Beth@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** and then select **OK**.

3. Enter the password you created in Module 1, select **Sign In**, then select  **Yes**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

4. Select **Start**, type **Outlook**, and then open Microsoft Outlook 2016.

5. On the ribbon, select  **New Items**, select  **Meeting**, and then select  **Skype Meeting**.

6. In the  **To** text box, type **Abbi**. 

7. Create a meeting request for some time tomorrow using a subject of  **Test Meeting**.

8. Send the meeting request.

9. Open the calendar, and then double-click the meeting that you just created. Verify that the meeting contains the custom footer text and that the help link references http://help.adatum.com.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online service settings. 


## Exercise 2: Configuring Skype for Business Online user settings
  
#### Task 1: Configure Skype for Business user settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, navigate to the Office 365 admin center.

2. On the menu to the left, select  **Users**, and then select  **Active users**. Select  **Christie Thomas**, and then select  **Edit** in the Product licenses section.

<<<<<<< HEAD
3. Turn off  **Skype for Business Online (Plan 2)**,  **Skype for Business Cloud PBX** and **Skype for Business PSTN Conferencing**. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.
=======
3. Turn off  **Skype for Business Online (Plan 2)**,  **Phone System** and **Audio Conferencing**. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

4. On the menu to the left, select  **Admin centers**, and then select  **Skype for Business**.

5. On the menu to the left, select  **Users**.

6. Verify that Christie Thomas is not listed as a Skype for Business user. You may need to refresh the window.

7. Select  **Ada** **Russell**, and then select  **Edit**.

8. On the  **general** tab, under Audio and video, clear **Record conversations and meetings**.

9. On the menu to the left, select  **external communications**, clear  **External Skype users**, and then select  **save**.

10. Select the  **back** icon, select **Francisco Chaves**, and then select  **Edit**.

11. On the  **general** tab, under Audio and video, select **Audio only** from the drop-down list box. Select **save**.

12. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 2: Verify Skype for Business communications
  
1. On LON-CL4, sign-in with the following credentials:
    - User name: **Ada**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

<<<<<<< HEAD
2. On the Welcome to Outlook 2016 page, select  **Next**.

3. On the Add an Email Account page, select  **Next**. If the Office installation wizard launches, wait for the installation to finish, and then continue. 

4. On the Auto Account Setup page, fill in the following information, and then select  **Next**:
=======
    > Sign out if another user is signed in.

2. Select **Start**, enter **Outlook** and select **Outlook 2016**.

    > If the **First things first** dialog appears, select **Accept**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

3. On the Welcome to Outlook page, enter **Ada@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** select **Connect**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
5. In the Microsoft Outlook dialog box, type  **Pa55w.rd** as the password, select **Remember my credentials**, and select  **OK**. 

6. Select  **Finish**.
=======
4. On the **Enter password** page, enter **Pa55w.rd** and select **Sign in**.

5. On the **Add this account to Windows** page, select **Yes**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

6. On the **You're all set** page, select **Done**. 

7. On the **Account setup is complete** page, clear the option for **Setup Outlook Mobile on my phone, too** and select **OK**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
8. Select  **Skip for now**.
=======
8. Open Skype for Business 2016.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

9. Select  **Skip for now** to skip the tour, if the option appears.

<<<<<<< HEAD
10. Save the sign-in information. In the Help Make Skype for Business Better! dialog box, select  **No**.
=======
10. Sign in as  **Ada@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

11. On LON-CL1, ensure that you are signed in as Beth, and verify that Outlook 2016 and Skype for Business 2016 are open.

12. In Outook 2016, open the calendar view.

13. Select **New meeting** 

14. Select **Skype Meeting** and enter teh following values for the meeting, and select **Send**:
    - To...: **Ada Russell**
    - Subject: **Test meeting**
    - Start time: Within 15 minutes

15. In Skype for Business, in the **Find someone** text box, type **Ada**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
16. On LON-CL4, verify that the IM from Beth is received and respond to it. 

17. In Outlook 2016, accept Beth's meeting request. 

18. Open the meeting, and then select  **Join Skype Meeting**.

19. Select  **Don't join audio**, and then select  **OK**.
=======
16. Double-click **Ada Russell** to open an IM window.

17. Type a message, and then press Enter.

18. Switch to LON-CL4, verify that the IM from Beth is received and reply it. 

19. On LON-CL4, switch to Outlook 2016, and wait for the meeting reminder to to appear.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

20. In the meeting reminder, select **Join Online**. 

<<<<<<< HEAD
21. On LON-CL1, open the meeting request, select  **Join Skype Meeting**, and then select  **Don't join audio**, and select  **OK**.

22. Verify that Beth is connected to the meeting.

23. On LON-CL1, in the meeting window, select the  **Present** icon, and then select **Present Desktop**.

24. In the Present Desktop window, select  **Present**.

25. In the Skype for Business window, select  **OK**.

26. On LON-CL4, verify that Beth's desktop is visible in the meeting window.
=======
21. Select  **Don't join audio**, and then select  **OK**.

22. Select **2 participants** and derify that Ada is connected to the meeting.

23. On LON-CL1, in the Outlook calendar, double-click the meeting, select  **Join Skype Meeting**, and then select  **Don't join audio**, and select  **OK**.

24. Select **2 participants** and verify Beth is connected to the meeting.

25. On LON-CL1, in the meeting window, select the  **Share Content** icon, and then select **Share your Desktop**.

26. In the Skype for Business window, select  **OK**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

27. Switch to LON-CL4, verify that Beth's desktop is visible in the meeting window.

28. On LON-CL4, disconnect from the meeting.

29. Switch to LON-CL1, disconnect from the meeting.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online user settings and validated Skype for Business Online functionality.


## Exercise 3: Configuring a Skype Meeting Broadcast
  
#### Task 1: Configure a Skype Meeting Broadcast
  
1. On LON-CL1, open a new tab in the Microsoft Edge browser.

2. Connect to  **https://broadcast.skype.com**, and then, if needed, sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

3. In the Skype Meeting Broadcast window, select  **New Meeting**.

4. In the Meeting details window, fill in the following information:
    - Meeting title:  **Test broadcast meeting**
    - Meeting time:  **Today's date**
    - Start time:  **Within the next 15 minutes**
    - Duration:  **1 hour**
    - Members:  **Beth Burke**
    - Access:  **Invitation only**
    - Attendees:  **Ada Russell**

<<<<<<< HEAD
  - Meeting title:  **Test broadcast meeting**
  - Meeting time:  **Today's** **date**
  - Start time:  **Within** **the next 15** **minutes**
  - Duration:  **1 hour**
  - Members:  **Beth** **Burke**
  - Access:  **Invitation only**
  - Attendees:  **Ada** **Russell**

=======
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e
5. Scroll back to the top of the window, and then select  **Create**.

6. In the Skype Meeting Broadcast window, select  **Create Outlook invitation**,  **Save**, and then select  **Open**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
7. If the  **How do you want to open this file**? window appears, ensure that  **Outlook 2016** is selected, and select **OK**. 

8. In the Test broadcast meeting -Meeting window, select  **Send Update**.
=======
7. If the  **How do you want to open this file**? window appears, ensure that  **Outlook 2016** is selected, and select **OK**.

8. In the Test broadcast meeting - Appointment window, select **Scheduling Assistant**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

9. Under **All Attendees** enter **Ada Russell** and select **Send**.


#### Task 2: Validate the Skype Meeting Broadcast configuration
  
1. On LON-CL3, ensure that you are signed in as Beth.

2. Select **Start**, enter **Outlook** and select **Outlook 2016**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
2. On the Welcome to Outlook 2016 page, select  **Next**.

3. On the Add an Email Account page, select  **Next**.

4. On the Auto Account Setup page, fill in the following information, and then select  **Next**:
=======
    > If the **First things first** dialog appears, select **Accept**.

3. On the Welcome to Outlook page, enter **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** select **Connect**.

4. On the **Enter password** page, enter **Pa55w.rd** and select **Sign in**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

5. On the **Add this account to Windows** page, select **Yes**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
5. In the Microsoft Outlook dialog box, type  **Pa55w.rd** as the password, select **Remember my credentials**, and select  **OK**. 

6. Select  **Finish**.
=======
6. On the **You're all set** page, select **Done**. 

7. On the **Account setup is complete** page, clear the option for **Setup Outlook Mobile on my phone, too** and select **OK**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

7. Open Skype for Business 2016.

8. Select  **Skip for now**.

9. Sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

<<<<<<< HEAD
10. Save the sign-in information. In the Help Make Skype for Business Better! dialog box, select  **No**.
=======
10. Save the sign-in information. In the **Help Make Skype for Business Better!** dialog box, select  **No**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

11. Open PowerPoint 2016. Select the option to create a blank presentation.

12. Enter **Title text** in the first slide and then save the presentation to the Documents folder using the name  **Presentation.pptx**.

13. Close PowerPoint 2016.

<<<<<<< HEAD
14. In Outlook, select the broadcast meeting request from Beth Burke, select  **Accept**. 

15. In the Reminders pop-up window, double-click the meeting request from Beth.

16. Select  **Join the Meeting**. 

17. In the Skype for Business window, sign in as  **Beth@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Join the event**.
=======
14. In Outlook, select the broadcast meeting request and select  **Accept**. 

15. In the Reminders pop-up window, double-click the meeting request.

16. Select  **Join the Meeting**. 

17. In the Skype for Business window, sign in as  **Beth@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **Join the event**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

18. In the  **Did you mean to switch apps?** window, select **Yes**.

19. In the Join Meeting Audio dialog box, select  **Don't join audio** and select **OK**. 

20. Ignore the warning about setting up an audio device if it appears.

21. In the Meeting window, select  **Share Content**, and then select  **Share PowerPoint Files**.

22. Browse to the  **Documents** folder, select **Presentation.pptx**, and then select  **Open**.

23. In the right side of the meeting window, select  **Content only**, and then select  **Start Broadcast**. 

    > **Note:** The steps for validating the configuration are provided for informational purposes only. They will not function the lab environment due to a requirement for a video and audio device. You can use your physical device to run the broadcast, if you wish.

24. Select  **Start Broadcast** again. Wait for the broadcast to start.

25. On LON-CL4, signed in as Ada, in Outlook 2016, accept the meeting request from Beth. 

26. Open the meeting request, and then select  **Join the Meeting**.

27. In the Skype for Business window, sign in as  **Ada@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Join the event**.

28. On LON-CL3, in the broadcast window, select  **Stop Broadcast**, and then select  **Stop Broadcast** again.

29. On both LON-CL1 and LON-CL4, disconnect from the meeting.

30. Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured a broadcast meeting and verified that users can join the meeting.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  