# Module 10: Planning and configuring an Office 365 collaboration solution
# Lab: Planning and configuring an Office 365 collaboration solution
  
### Scenario
With all the core Office 365 components configured and working well, the next step for A. Datum Corporation administrators is to explore options for using Office 365 to enhance collaboration within the organization. To do this, you will enable and configure Yammer Enterprise, OneDrive for Business, Microsoft Teams, and Office 365 groups.  

### Objectives
  
After completing this lab you will be able to:
- Enable and configure Yammer Enterprise.
- Configure OneDrive for Business.
- Configure Microsoft Teams
- Configure Office 365 groups.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 75 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1,** **20347A-LON-DS1,** **20347A-LON-CL1, 20347A-LON-CL3**

User name: **Adatum\\Administrator**, **Adatum\\Beth**, **Adatum\\Beth**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** with your unique Office 365 name that is displayed in the online lab portal.

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace the **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** with your unique  **hostdomain.com** name displayed in the online lab portal.


This lab requires the following virtual machines: 

-  **LON-DC1**
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

-  **LON-DS1**
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

-  **LON-CL1**
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

-  **LON-CL3**
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring Yammer Enterprise
  
### Scenario
  
As a first step in exploring the collaboration options, you will configure Yammer for A. Datum. Yammer is enabled by default, so you need to configure the settings and explore the user experience with Yammer.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure a Yammer organization setting
2. Configure Yammer service settings, and enforce Office 365 identity
3. Configure the Yammer user experience
4. Using Yammer


#### Task 1: Configure a Yammer organization setting
  
1. In  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge and browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select  **Admin centers**, and then select  **Yammer**.

4. Close the  **WHO DO YOU WORK WITH?** page if it appears.

5. Under **Network**, select  **Usage Policy**.

6. In the  **Usage Policy** window, select **Require users to accept policy during sign up and after any changes are made to the policy**.

7. In the  **Usage Policy** window, select **Display policy reminder in sidebar**.

8. In the  **Custom Policy Title** text box, enter **A. Datum Acceptable Use Policy**.

9. In the **Sidebar Message** text box, enter **Your use of Yammer is governed by the Adatum Acceptable Use Policy**.

10. In the  **Enter your policy in the textbox below** text box, copy and paste the following text:

    ```
    Welcome to Yammer! Our goal is to provide a collaborative environment to connect with colleagues and bridge various departments and geographic locations to share meaningful information.
    ```

11. Select  **Save**.

12. Select **I Accept**. 

13. If needed, in Yammer, in the left navigation pane, select the **Settings and More** (gear) icon, and then select **Network Admin**.

14. Under the heading **Network**, select **Configuration**.

15. Under **Enabled Features**, clear the selection for **3rd Party Applications**.

16. Select  **Save**.

17. Under **Content and Security**, select  **Data Retention**.

18. In the  **Data Retention Policy** page, read the description of available options and select **Soft Delete** and then select **Save**.

19. Under **Content and security**, select  **Monitor Keywords**.

20. In the  **Monitor Keywords** page, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, in the **Email Address** field.

21. In the text box below, type the following words, one in each line:  **gambling**, **erotic**, **warez**.

22. Select  **Save**.

23. Under **Network**, select  **Success**.

24. Select **Write a welcome message**.

25. Under **DISCOVERY**, select **All Company**, and in the **What are you working on?** text box and type: **Welcome to all Adatum users!**. 

26. Select **Post**.


#### Task 2: Configure Yammer service settings, and enforce Office 365 identity
  
1. In the left navigation pane, select **Settings and More**, and then select **Network Admin**.

2. Under **Content and security**, select **Security Settings**.

3. Scroll down to  **Office365 Identity Enforcement**. 

4. Verify the  **Enforce Office 365 identity** check box is checked.

5. Select **Okay**, if prompted, and then select **Save**.



#### Task 3: Configure the Yammer user experience
  
1. Select **Settings and More**.

2. Under **Beth Burke**, select **Edit Settings**.

3. Select **NOTIFICATIONS**.

4. Select only the following options in the  **Email me when...** section:
    -  **I receive a message in my inbox**
    -  **I log in from somewhere new**
    -  **I post a message via email (This will send a confirmation email)**

5. Select  **Save**.

6. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 4: Using Yammer
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you assigned in Module 2.

3. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Yammer**.

4. If the **WHO DO YOU WORK WITH?** dialog is present, enter **Beth** in the first text box and then select **DONE**.

5. In the **A. Datum Acceptable Use Policy** dialog select **I Accept**.

6. Find the post from Beth Burke in the post list.

    > If you do not see the post, select **All** to show all posts.

7. Select  **LIKE**, and then select  **SHARE**.

8. In the  **Share this conversation** dialog box, select **Post in a Group**, and then select  **All Company** from the drop-down.

9. In the **Say something about this conversation** text box, enter **Welcome from me, too!** and select  **Share**.

10. In the **What are you working on** text box, type  **Free gambling here**, then in the  **Add a group and//or people** box type  **all** then select  **All Company**, and then select  **Post**.

11. Switch to  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge and browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

12. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

13. In the Office 365 portal, select  **Outlook**.

14. Verify that you received a message from Yammer with a report about a monitored keyword appearance in Christie's post.

    > **Note** It may take a few minutes for the notice to appear.

15. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled Yammer for A. Datum Corporation.


## Exercise 2: Configuring OneDrive for Business
  
### Scenario
  
After you enable Yammer Enterprise, you are ready to configure OneDrive for Business for A. Datum. You have the sync client on your computer, and you can start using OneDrive for Business.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Enable OneDrive for Business synchronization
2. Create files to synchronize with OneDrive for Business 
3. Share files with other users



#### Task 1: Enable OneDrive for Business synchronization
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, select  **Start**, type **Word**, and then select  **Word**. 

    > **Note** If you receive a dialog saying that Word is not activated, close it.

2. In the  **Word** window, in the top right corner, verify that Word is licensed to Beth Burke.

3. If Word is licensed to another account, select  **Switch account**.

4. In the  **Accounts** dialog box, select **SIGN OUT**, and then select  **Sign out**. In the  **Remove Account** notice, select **Yes**. 

5. At the top right, select  **Sign in to get the most out of Office**.

6. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **E-mail address** box, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select  **Next**.

7. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Password** box, enter the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **Sign in**.

8. Verify that Word is now licensed to Beth. Close Word.

9. Open Microsoft Edge, if it is not open, and sign in to the Office 365 portal as Beth Burke.

10. On the Office 365 portal, select  **OneDrive**.

    > If **Your OneDrive is ready** appears, select it.

    > If the  **Welcome to OneDrive, Beth** page appears, select **Skip**.

    > If the  **Let's get you started** page appears, close it.

11. In the  **OneDrive** window, select **New**, and then select  **Word document**.

12. In the document type some text, and then select  **Beth Burke** next to  **Word** in the upper-left corner of the window.

13. Select **Sync**.

14. In the  **Did you mean to switch apps?** dialog box, select **Yes**.

    > **Note** If prompted, sign-in to OneDrive and select **Next**.

15. In the  **Sync your OneDrive files to this PC** dialog box, select **Next**.

    > Close the **Welcome to OneDrive** window if it appears.

16. Note that File Explorer opens and displays the location where the synchronized files will be stored. Verify that the Word document has been synchronized to the local computer.



#### Task 2: Create files to synchronize with OneDrive for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, ensure that the  **OneDrive- A. Datum** folder is open in File Explorer.

2. On the ribbon in File Explorer, select  **Home**, select **New folder**, and name the new folder named  **Private**.

3. On the ribbon, select  **Home**, select **New folder**, and then create a second new folder named  **Project A**.

4. Double-click the  **Private** folder. Right-click in this folder, and on the context menu, select **New**, and then select **Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document  **Holidays.docx**.

5. Double-click  **Holidays.docx** to open it, and then type some short text. Save the changes, and then close Microsoft Word.

6. See how the document icon in the File Explorer window changes from two blue arrows to a small green check mark icon after the synchronization process is complete. The document has been transferred to the cloud storage automatically.

7. In the File Explorer window, navigate to  **OneDrive* - A. Datum** in the navigation address line to move one level up.

8. Double-click the folder  **Project A**, right-click in this folder, and on the context menu, select  **New**, and then select **Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document  **Project targets.docx**.

9. Double-click  **Project targets.docx** to open it, and then type some short text. Save the changes, and then close Microsoft Word.

10. Verify that the document synchronizes. 

11. To view the files online, switch to the Microsoft Edge window. Refresh the view.

12. In the  **Files** list, you should see your two folders, **Private** and **Project A**.

13. Navigate to the  **Private** folder. Select the synchronized document **Holidays.docx** to open it in Word Online.

14. Add some text to the document. The document is saved automatically when  **Saved** is displayed in the title bar.

15. In the menu bar right beside Word, select  **Beth Burke** to return to OneDrive for Business.

16. The content of the  **Private** folder changes, and you will see that you changed the document online. The **Modified** column shows that the document changed some seconds (or minutes) ago.

17. Switch back to File Explorer. Navigate to the  **Private** folder, and then open **Holidays.docx**. You will see that the changes you made in Word Online are synchronized back automatically. 



#### Task 3: Share files with other users
  
1. In File Explorer, right-click the folder  **Project A** and select  **Share**.

2. A dialog box named  **Share Project A** opens.

3. Select the drop-down arrow and then select  **Specific people** then  **Apply**.

4. In the text box, type  **Christie** and select  **Christie Thomas**.

5. Add a short message in the message text box below, and then select  **Send**.

6. Switch to **LON-CL3**, launch Mircosoft Edge, navigate to **http://portal.office.com** as **Christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

7. In the Office 365 portal, select  **Outlook**.

    > If prompted, enter your time zone and select **Save**.

8. Select the message with the subject  **Beth Burke shared the folder "Project A" with you.** 

9. In the message box, select  **Project A**. 

10. On the OneDrive page, select **Project targets.docx**.

11. When the document opens, verify that you can edit it. 

    > All modifications are stored online in the OneDrive for Business cloud storage. By default, SharePoint Online creates a new version when the document changes. This can be viewed by the owner in the version history. 

12. Close the Microsoft Edge window.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Microsoft OneDrive for A. Datum.


## Exercise 3: Configuring Microsoft Teams
  
### Scenario
  
After you enable Yammer, you are ready to configure Microsoft Teams for A. Datum. Microsoft Teams is enabled by default. You must configure the ability for external users to join internal teams.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Configure Microsoft Teams.
2. Explore Teams.

#### Task 1: Configure Teams for external access

1. On  **LON-CL1**, sign in to  **http://portal.office.com** as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

2. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

3. In the left panel, under **Admin centers**, select **Teams**.

4. On the Microsoft Teams admin center page, select **Org-wide settings** then **Guest Access**.

5. Enable **Allow guest access in Teams** and select **Save**.


#### Task 2: Explore Teams

1. In Edge, select the  **Microsoft Office Home** tab.

2. In the Office 365 portal, select **Teams**.

    > If prompted with **Let's create your dream team. First give it a name!**, select **Skip this step**.

    > If prompted, close the **Bring your team together** dialog.

3. Select **Teams** then, under Create a team, select  **Create team**, select  **Build a team from scratch**, and then select  **Public - Anyone in your org can join**

4. Under **Team name**, enter **Project A** and then select  **Create**.

5. On the  **Add members to "Project A"** page, enter  **Christie** and select  **Christie Thomas**.

6. Select **Add**, and then select **Close**.

7. Next to **Project A**, select **...**, and then select **Add channel**.

8. Under **Channel name**, enter **Scheduling** and select **Add**.

9. In the Start a new conversation box, enter **@Christie let's start working on a draft schedule** and select **Send**.

    > @Christie will change to Christie Thomas

10. Switch to **LON-CL3**.

11. In Edge, sign in to  **http://portal.office.com** as **Christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

12. On the Office 365 portal, select **Teams**.

13. Select **Activity** and then select the first entry under **Feed**.

14. Read the post from **Beth Burke**.

15. At the top of the page, select **Project A**, then select **Add member**.

16. Enter the Microsoft account you created for this course, select **Add _email address_ as a guest**.

17. Select  **Add** then select  **Close**.

18. Select **Teams**, then select **General**.

19. Select **+** (Add a tab).

20. Select **Planner**.

21. In the **Planner** dialog, under **Tab Name** enter **Project plan** and select **Save**

22. Close Edge.


## Exercise 4: Configuring Office 365 groups
  
### Scenario
  
The final Office 365 collaboration solution that you need to explore is Office 365 groups. You need to configure Office 365 groups, including membership, privacy, and subscription options, and explore the user interaction with Office 365 groups.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Configure a private Office 365 group
2. Configure a public Office 365 group with Windows PowerShell
3. Explore the Office 365 group components



#### Task 1: Configure a private Office 365 group
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, Open Micrsoft Edge, sign in to  **http://portal.office.com** as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

2. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

3. Expand  **Groups**, select **Groups**, and then select **Add a group**.

4. Verify that **Office 365** is selected in the **Type** drop-down list.

5. In the  **New group** window, configure the following settings, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number:
    - Name:  **Adatum Marketing**
    - E-Mail:  **adatummarketing@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Description:  **Adatum Marketing Group**
    - Under  **Privacy**, select  **Private - Only members can see group content**.
   
6. Select **Select owner**

7. Select **Beth Burke**, and then select **Add**.

8. Select  **Close**.

9. Select  **Adatum Marketing**, and in the  **Details** window, next to **Members**, select **Edit**.

10. Select  **Add members**, and then select **Christie Thomas**.

11. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Close**.



#### Task 2: Configure a public Office 365 group with Windows PowerShell
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the search box on the taskbar, type  **PowerShell**.

2. In the search results, right-click  **Windows PowerShell**, and then select  **Run as administrator**.

3. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box enter  **Administrator** in the User name field, enter  **Pa55w.rd** in the Password field, and then select **Yes**.

4. Type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    $cred = Get-Credential
    ```

5. In the Windows PowerShell credential request window, sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

6. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    $session = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/ -Credential $cred -Authentication Basic -AllowRedirection
    ```

7. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Import-PSSession $Session
    ```

8. To create a new public Office 365 group, type the following command, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then press Enter:

    ```
    New-UnifiedGroup -DisplayName "Planning Group" -Alias "PlanningGroup" -EmailAddresses PlanningGroup@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
    ```

9. To add a user to the owners group, type the following command, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Add-UnifiedGroupLinks "Planning Group" -Links Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com  -LinkType Owner
    ```

10. To add a user to the members group, type the following command, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Add-UnifiedGroupLinks "Planning Group" -Links Francisco@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com  -LinkType Member
    ```

11. Type the following command, press Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell.

    ```
    Remove-PSSession $Session
    ```



#### Task 3: Explore the Office 365 group components
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, Open Micrsoft Edge, sign in to  **http://portal.office.com** as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

2. Select  **Outlook**.

3. In the navigation pane, select  **Planning Group**, and then select  **New message**.

4. In the message window, type **Christie Thomas** in the **To** line, type a subject and some content, and then select **Send**.

5. Under **Planning Group**, select  **Calendar**.

6. Select  **New event**.

7. Select  **My calender** and in the drop-down box, select **Planning Group**.

8. Enter the following data for the meeting and select **Save**. 
    - **Title**: Planning meeting
    - **Start** and **End** date: Tomorrow

9. Select **Calendar** and verify that the calendar item is synchronized to Beth's personal calendar. 

10. Select **Mail**.

11. Under **Groups**, select  **Planning Group**.

12. Under **Planning Group** select  **Files**.

    > Wait for the files store to be created. It may take a few minutes.

13. Select  **New**, and then select  **Word document**.

    > A new Microsoft Edge tab will open with the new Word document.

14. Type some text into the document and, when you see  **Saved** in the title bar, close the Microsoft Edge tab.

15. Select the Microsoft Edge tab for Beth Burke's Outlook email.

16. Note the Word document and when it was last modified.

17. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, navigate to  **https://outlook.office365.com**, and sign in as **Christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

18. Verify that the  **A. Datum Marketing** group appears in your **Groups** list.

19. Under **Groups**, select **Discover groups**.

20. In the **Search for groups** text box, type  **planning** and press  *Enter**.

21. Under the  Planning Group widget that populates, select  **Join** then close the Discover groups window. 

    > Because this is a public group, you can join the group.

22. In the left navigation pane, select  **Planning Group** and verify that you see the emails to the Planning Group.

23. Select  **Files**, and then verify that you see the document that Beth created.

24. Close Microsoft Edge.

25. Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Microsoft Office 365 groups at A. Datum.



## 
  
**Question** 
If you enforce Office 365 identities in Yammer, what is the impact for Yammer users with no Office 365 identities?

**Question** 
Which Windows PowerShell cmdlets can you use to create an Office 365 group and to add the group owner?



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  