# Lab Answer Key:  Module 10: Planning and configuring an Office 365 collaboration solution
# Lab: Planning and configuring an Office 365 collaboration solution
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring Yammer
  
#### Task 1: Configure a Yammer organization setting
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. In  **LON-CL1**, select  **Desktop**, open Microsoft Edge from the taskbar, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** (where Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com is your unique Adatum domain name) with the password you created in Module 1.

3. Select the  **Office 365 app launcher** icon, and then select **Yammer**.

4. On the  **WHO DO YOU WORK WITH?** page, select the **X** at the top-right corner to close the page.

5. In Yammer, in the left pane at the top, select the  **Settings** (gear) icon.

6. Select  **NETWORK ADMIN**.

7. In the left menu of the Yammer console, under the heading **Network**, select  **Usage Policy**.
=======
1. In  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge and browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** (where Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com is your unique Adatum domain name) with the password you created in Module 1.

3. In the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin centers**, and then select  **Yammer**.

4. Close the  **WHO DO YOU WORK WITH?** page if it appears.

5. Under **Network**, select  **Usage Policy**.

6. In the  **Usage Policy** window, select **Require users to accept policy during sign up and after any changes are made to the policy**.

7. In the  **Usage Policy** window, select **Display policy reminder in sidebar**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

8. In the  **Custom Policy Title** text box, enter **Adatum Acceptable Use Policy**.

9. In the **Sidebar Message** text box, enter **Your use of Yammer is governed by the Adatum Acceptable Use Policy**.

10. In the  **Enter your policy in the textbox below** text box, copy and paste the following text:

    ```
    Welcome to Yammer! Our goal is to provide a collaborative environment to connect with colleagues and bridge various departments and geographic locations to share meaningful information.
    ```

11. Select  **Save**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
12. Select  **Save**.

13. In the  **Adatum Acceptable Use Policy** window, select **I Accept**. 

14. If needed, in Yammer, in the left pane at the top, select the  **Settings** (gear) icon, and then select **NETWORK ADMIN**.

15.  In the left menu of the Yammer console, under the heading **Network**, select **Configuration**.
=======
12. Select **I Accept**. 

13. If needed, in Yammer, in the navigation pane, select the **Settings and more** (gear) icon, and then select **Network Admin**.

15. Under the heading **Network**, select **Configuration**.

16. Under **Enabled Features**, clear the selection for **3rd Party Applications**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

17. Select  **Save**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
17. Select  **Save**.

18. In the left-side menu of the Yammer console, select  **Data Retention**.

19. In the  **Data Retention Policy** page, read the description of available options and select **Soft Delete** and then select **Save**.

20. In the left menu of the Yammer console, under **Content and security**, select  **Monitor Keywords**.

=======
18. Under **Content and Security**, select  **Data Retention**.

19. In the  **Data Retention Policy** page, read the description of available options and select **Soft Delete** and then select **Save**.

20. Under **Content and security**, select  **Monitor Keywords**.

>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e
21. In the  **Monitor Keywords** page, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** in the **Email Address** field.

22. In the text box below, type the following words, one in each line:  **gambling**, **erotic**, **warez**.

23. Select  **Save**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
24.  In the left menu of the Yammer console, under the heading **Network**, select  **Success**.

25. Select **Write a welcome message**, at the bottom of the middle pane.

26. Under **DISCOVERY**, select **All Company**, and in the middle pane, select in the **What are you working on?** text box and type: **Welcome to all Adatum users!**. 
=======
24. Under **Network**, select  **Success**.

25. Select **Write a welcome message**.

26. Under **DISCOVERY**, select **All Company**, and in the **What are you working on?** text box and type: **Welcome to all Adatum users!**. 
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

27. Select **Post**.



#### Task 2: Configure Yammer service settings, and enforce Office 365 identity
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. In Yammer, at the top of the left pane, select the **Settings** (gear) icon.

2. Select  **NETWORK ADMIN**.

3. In Yammer admin center, in the left navigation pane under **Content and security**, select **Security Settings**.
=======
1. Select **Settings and more**, and then select **Network Admin**.

2. Under **Content and security**, select **Security Settings**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

3. Scroll down to  **Office365 Identity Enforcement**. 

4. Select the  **Enforce Office 365 identity** check box.

<<<<<<< HEAD
6. In the pop-up window, select  **Okay.**

7. Select  **Save**.
=======
5. Select **Okay** and then select **Save**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e



#### Task 3: Configure the Yammer user experience
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. In Yammer, at the top of the left pane, select the **Settings** (gear) icon, and then select **Edit Settings**.

2. In the toolbar, select  **NOTIFICATIONS**.

3. In the  **Send me a digest of message activity** drop-down list, select **weekly**.
=======
1. Select **Settings and more**.

2. Under **Beth Burke**, select **Edit Settings**.

3. Select **NOTIFICATIONS**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

4. Select only the following options in the  **Email me when...** section:
    -  **I receive a message in my inbox**
    -  **I log in from somewhere new**
    -  **I post a message via email (This will send a confirmation email)**

<<<<<<< HEAD
  -  **I receive a message in my inbox**
  -  **I log in from somewhere new**
  -  **I post a message via email (This will send a confirmation email)**

=======
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e
5. Select  **Save**.

6. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 4: Using Yammer
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Christie@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you assigned in Module 2.

3. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Yammer**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
4. At the  **WHO DO YOU WORK WITH** prompt, type **Christie** in the first text box, and then select **DONE** and close the window.

5. Select  **I Accept** at the **Adatum Acceptable Use Policy** prompt.

6. Find the post from Beth Burke in the post list.

7. Select  **LIKE**, and then select  **SHARE**.
=======
4. In the **WHO DO YOU WORK WITH?** dialog, enter **Beth** in the first text box and then select **DONE**.

5. In the **Adatum Acceptable Use Policy** dialog select **I Accept**.

6. Find the post from Beth Burke in the post list.

    > If you do not see the post, select **All** to show all posts.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

7. Select  **LIKE**, and then select  **SHARE**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
9. Select  **Share**.

10. Select  **All Company** and in the **What are you working on** text box, type " **Free gambling here"**, and then select  **Post**.
=======
8. In the  **Share this conversation** dialog box, select **Post in a Group**, and then select  **All Company** from the drop-down.

9. In the **Say something about this conversation** text box, enter **Welcome from me, too!** and select  **Share**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

10. Select  **All Company** and in the **What are you working on** text box, type **Free gambling here**, and then select  **Post**.

11. Switch to **LON-CL1**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
13. Sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

14. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Mail**.
=======
12. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Outlook**.

15. Verify that you received a message from Yammer with a report about a monitored keyword appearance in Christie's post.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

    > **Note** It may take a few minutes for the notice to appear.

16. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled Yammer for A. Datum Corporation.


## Exercise 2: Configuring OneDrive for Business
  
#### Task 1: Enable OneDrive for Business synchronization
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. On  **LON-CL3**, select  **Start**, select  **All apps**, and then select  **Word 2016**. 
=======
1. On  **LON-CL1**, select  **Start**, type **Word**, and then select  **Word 2016**. 

    > **Note** If you receive a dialog saying that Word is not activated, close it.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

2. In the  **Word** window, in the top right corner, verify that Word is licensed to Beth Burke.

3. If Word is licensed to another account, select  **Switch account**.

4. In the  **Accounts** dialog box, select **SIGN OUT**, and then select  **Sign out**. In the  **Remove Account** notice, select **Yes**. 

5. At the top right, select  **Sign in to get the most out of Office**.

6. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **E-mail address** box, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then select  **Next**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
7. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Sign in**.

8. Verify that Word is now licensed to Beth. Close Word.

9. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

10. Sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

11. On the Office 365 portal, select  **OneDrive**.

12. If the  **Welcome to OneDrive for Business** page appears, select **Next**.

13. In the  **OneDrive** window, select **New**, and then select  **Word document**.

14. In the  **Word Online** window, type some text, and then select **Beth Burke** at the top of the window beside Word Online.

15. In the  **OneDrive** window, select **Sync**.

16. In the  **Did you mean to switch apps?** dialog box, select **Yes**.

17. In the  **Sync your OneDrive files to this PC** dialog box, select **Start sync**.

18. If prompted to sign in, type  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then select  **Next**. 

19. Type  **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Sign In**.

20. Select  **File Explorer** on the task bar, and then select **OneDrive - A. Datum**.
=======
7. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Password** box, enter the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **Sign in**.

8. Verify that Word is now licensed to Beth. Close Word.

9. Open Microsoft Edge, if it is not open, and sign in to the Office 365 portal as Beth Burke.

11. On the Office 365 portal, select  **OneDrive**.

    > If **Your OneDrive is ready** appears, select it.

    > If the  **Welcome to OneDrive for Business** page appears, select **Next**.

12. In the  **OneDrive** window, select **New**, and then select  **Word document**.

13. In the document type some text, and then select **Beth Burke** next to **Word Online**.

14. Select **Sync**.

15. In the  **Did you mean to switch apps?** dialog box, select **Yes**.

    > **Note** If prompted, sign-in to OneDrive and select **Next**.

16. In the  **Sync your OneDrive files to this PC** dialog box, select **Next**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

    > Close the **Welcome to OneDrive** window if it appears.

17. Note that File Explorer opens and displays the location where the synchronized files will be stored. Verify that the Word document has been synchronized to the local computer.


#### Task 2: Create files to synchronize with OneDrive for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, ensure that the  **OneDrive- A. Datum** folder is open in File Explorer.

<<<<<<< HEAD
2. On the ribbon in File Explorer, select  **Home**, select ** New folder**, and then create a new folder named  **Private**.

3. On the ribbon, select  **Home,** select **New folder**, and then create a second new folder named  **Project A**.

4. Double-click the  **Private** folder. Right-select in this folder, and on the context menu, select **New**, and then select ** Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document  **Holidays.docx**.
=======
2. On the ribbon in File Explorer, select  **Home**, select ** New folder**, and name the new folder named  **Private**.

3. On the ribbon, select  **Home**, select **New folder**, and then create a second new folder named  **Project A**.

4. Double-click the  **Private** folder. Right-click in this folder, and on the context menu, select **New**, and then select ** Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document  **Holidays.docx**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

5. Double-click  **Holidays.docx** to open it, and then type some short text. Save the changes, and then close Microsoft Word.

6. See how the document icon in the File Explorer window changes from two blue arrows to a small green check mark icon after the synchronization process is complete. The document has been transferred to the cloud storage automatically.

7. In the File Explorer window, navigate to  **OneDrive* - A. Datum** in the navigation address line to move one level up.

<<<<<<< HEAD
8. Double-click the folder  **Project A**. Right-select in this folder, and on the context menu, select  **New**, and then select ** Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document  **Project targets.docx**.
=======
8. Double-click the folder  **Project A**. right-click in this folder, and on the context menu, select  **New**, and then select ** Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document  **Project targets.docx**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

9. Double-click  **Project targets.docx** to open it, and then type some short text. Save the changes, and then close Microsoft Word.

10. Verify that the document synchronizes. 

11. To view the files online, switch to the Microsoft Edge window. Refresh the view.

12. In the  **Files** list, you should see your two folders, **Private** and **Project A**.

13. Navigate to the  **Private** folder. Select the synchronized document **Holidays.docx** to open it in Word Online.

14. Select  **Edit** **document**, and then select  **Edit in Browser**. Add some text. The document is saved automatically when  **Saved** is displayed in the title bar.

15. In the menu bar right beside Word Online, select  **Beth Burke** to return to OneDrive for Business.

16. The content of the  **Private** folder changes, and you will see that you changed the document online. The **Modified** column shows that the document changed some seconds (or minutes) ago.

17. Switch back to File Explorer. Navigate to the  **Private** folder, and then open **Holidays.docx**. You will see that the changes you made in Word Online are synchronized back automatically. 



#### Task 3: Share files with other users
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. In File Explorer, right-select the folder  **Project A**, select  **View online**.

2. Microsoft Edge opens. Open the  **Project A** folder, right-select **Project Targets.docx**, and then select  **Share**.
=======
1. In File Explorer, right-click the folder  **Project A**, select  **Share**.

3. A dialog box named **Share Project A** opens.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

4. Select the drop-down arrow and then select **Specific people**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
4. In the upper text box, type  **Beth Burke**.

5. Ensure that the text  **Anyone with this link can edit this item** is show, add a short message in the message text box below, and then select **Share**.
=======
5. In the text box, type  **Christie** and select **Christie Thomas**.

6. Add a short message in the message text box below, and then select **Send**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

7. Switch to **LON-CL3**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
7. Sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** by using the password you created in Module 1.

8. In the Office 365 portal, select  **Mail**.

9. Select the message with the subject  **Beth Burke has shared Project Targets**. 

10. In the message box, select  **Project Targets**. 

11. When the document opens, select  **Edit in Browser**. Verify that you can open the document and edit it. All modifications are stored online in the OneDrive for Business cloud storage. By default, SharePoint Online creates a new version when the document changes. This can be viewed by the owner in the version history. 
=======
8. In the Office 365 portal, select  **Outlook**.

    > If prompted, enter your time zone and select **Save**.

9. Select the message with the subject  **Beth Burke shared the folder "Project A" with you.** 

10. In the message box, select  **Project A**. 

11. On the OneDrive page, select **Project targets.docx**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

12. When the document opens, verify that you can edit it. 

<<<<<<< HEAD
13. In the Microsoft Edge window, select the  **Shared** button of **Project targets** in Sharing column.

14. In the menu on the right select  **Stop sharing** and then select **Stop sharing** again.

15. Close the Microsoft Edge window.
=======
    > All modifications are stored online in the OneDrive for Business cloud storage. By default, SharePoint Online creates a new version when the document changes. This can be viewed by the owner in the version history. 

13. Close the Microsoft Edge window.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Microsoft OneDrive for A. Datum.


## Exercise 3: Configuring Microsoft Teams

### Task 1: Configure Teams for external access

1. On  **LON-CL1**, sign in to  **http://portal.office.com** as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

2. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

3. Expand **Settings** and select **Services & add-ins**.

4. Select **Microsoft Teams**.

5. Under **Settings by user/license type**, in the **Select the user/license type you want to configure drop-down**, select **Guest**.

6. Turn on the option **Turn Microsoft Teams on or off for all users of this type**.

7. Select **Save**, and then **Close**.


### Task 2: Explore Teams

1. In Edge, open the Microsoft Office Home page.

2. Select **Teams**.

    > If prompted with **Let's create your dram team. Firgt give it a name!**, select **Skip this step**.

    > If prompted, close the **Bring your team together** dialog.

3. Select **Teams**, then select **Join or create team** and hten select **Create a team**.

4. Under **Team name**, enter **Project A**.

5. Under **Privacy**, in the drop-down select **Public - Anyone in your organization can join** and select **Next**.

6. On the **Add members to "Project A"** page, enter **Christie** and select **Christie Thomas**.

7. Select **Add**, and then select **Close**.

8. Next to **Project A**, select **...**, and then select **Add channel**.

9. Under **Channel name**, enter **Scheduling** and select **Add**.

10. Under **Let's get the conversation started**, select **Expand compose box**.

11. In the Compose box, enter **@Christie let's start working on a draft schedule** and select **Send**.

    > @Christie will change to Christie Thomas

12. Switch to **LON-CL3**.

13. In Edge, sign in to  **http://portal.office.com** as **Christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

14. On the Office 365 portal, select **Teams**.

16. Select **Activity** and then select the first entry under **Feed**.

17. Read the post from **Beth Burke**.

18. At the top of the page, select **Project A**, then select **Add member**.

19. Enter the Microsoft account you created for this course, select **Add _email address_ as a guest**.

20. Select **Add**, then select **Close**.

21. Select **Teams**, then select **General**.

22. Select **+** (Add a tab).

23. Select **Planner**.

24. In the **Planner** dialog, under **Tab Name** enter **Project plan** and select **Save**

25. Close Edge.


## Exercise 4: Configuring Office 365 groups
  
#### Task 1: Configure a private Office 365 group
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, sign in to  **http://portal.office.com** as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

2. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
3. Select  **Groups** in the left navigation pane, select **Groups**, and then select  **Add a group**.
=======
3. Expand  **Groups**, select **Groups**, and then select **Add a group**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

4. Verify that **Office 365 group** is selected in the **Type** drop-down list.

5. In the  **New group** window, configure the following settings:
    - Name:  **Adatum Marketing**
    - E-Mail:  **adatummarketing@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Description:  **Adatum Marketing Group**
    - Under  **Privacy**, select  **Private - Only members can see group content**.
    - Set the language to  **English (United Kingdom)**

<<<<<<< HEAD
  - Name:  **AdatumMarketing**
  - E-Mail:  **Adatummarketing@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
  - Description:  **Adatum Marketing Group**
  - Under  **Privacy**, select  **Private - Only members can see group content**.
  - Set the language to  **English (United Kingdom)**
  - Group owner:  **Beth Burke**

6. Select  **Add**.

7. Select  **Close**.

8. Select on  **AdatumMarketing**, and in the  **Details** window, in the **Members** section, select **Edit**.

9. Select  **Add members**, and then select  **Beth Burke**.

10. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Close**.
=======
6. Select **Select owner**

7. Select **Beth Burke**, and then select **Add**.

8. Select  **Close**.

9. Select on  **Adatum Marketing**, and in the  **Details** window, next to **Members**, select **Edit**.

10. Select  **Add members**, and then select **Christie Thomas**.

11. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Close**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e



#### Task 2: Configure a public Office 365 group with Windows PowerShell
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. On  **LON-CL1**, right-select  **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell** on the desktop and select **Run as Administrator**.
=======
1. On LON-CL1, in the search box on the taskbar, type  **PowerShell**.

2. In the search results, right-click  **Windows PowerShell**, and then select  **Run as administrator**.

3. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

4. Type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    $cred = Get-Credential
    ```

<<<<<<< HEAD
3. In the Windows PowerShell credential request window, sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.
=======
5. In the Windows PowerShell credential request window, sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

6. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    $session = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/ -Credential $cred -Authentication Basic -AllowRedirection
    ```

7. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Import-PSSession $Session -AllowClobber
    ```

8. To create a new public Office 365 group, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    New-UnifiedGroup -DisplayName "Planning Group" -Alias "PlanningGroup" -EmailAddresses PlanningGroup@AdatumYYXXXX.hostdomain.com
    ```

9. To add a user to the owners group, type the following command, and then press Enter:

<<<<<<< HEAD
  ```
  Add-UnifiedGroupLinks "Planning Group" -Links Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com  -LinkType Owner
  ```
=======
    ```
    Add-UnifiedGroupLinks "Planning Group" -Links Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com  -LinkType Owner
    ```
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

10. To add a user to the members group, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Add-UnifiedGroupLinks "Planning Group" -Links Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com  -LinkType Member
    ```

11. Type the following command, press Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell.

    ```
    Remove-PSSession $Session
    ```


#### Task 3: Explore the Office 365 group components
  
<<<<<<< HEAD
1. On  **LON-CL1**, open  **Microsoft Edge**, and then sign in to  **https://portal.office.com** as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

2. Select the app launcher in the upper-left corner.

3. Select  **Mail**.

4. On the left pane, select  **Planning Group**, and then select  **Start a conversation**. If pop-up window is blocked, select  **Always allow**.

5. In the message window, type  **BethBurke** in the **To** line, type a subject and some content, and then select **Send**.

6. Select  **Calendar** on the toolbar, and then view the group calendar.

7. Select  **New**. In the  **Details** pane, fill out the data for the meeting, type **Planning meeting** for the subject, schedule it for tomorrow, and then select **Save**.

8. Ensure that the calendar item synchronizes with Beth's personal calendar. 

9. Select the  **Office365 apps** icon, and then select **Mail**.
=======
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in **Microsoft Edge**, open the Office 365 Home page.

3. Select  **Outlook**.

4. In the navigation pane, select  **Planning Group**, and then select  **New**.

5. In the message window, type **Christie Thomas** in the **To** line, type a subject and some content, and then select **Send**.

6. Under **Planning Group**, select  **Calendar**, and then view the group calendar.

7. Select  **New**. 

8. In the  **Details** pane, enter the following data for the meeting and select **Save**. 
    - **Title**: Planning meeting
    - **Start** and **End** date: Tomorrow

9. Select **Calendar** and verify that the calendar item is synchronized to Beth's personal calendar. 

10. Select **Mail**.

11. Under **Groups**, select  **Planning Group**.

12. Under **Planning Group** select  **Files**.

    > Wait for the files store to be created. It may take a few minutes.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

13. Select  **New**, and then select  **New Word document**. 

<<<<<<< HEAD
11. Select  **Files** on the toolbar, and then wait for the files store to be created. It should take few minutes.

12. Select  **New**, and then select  **NewWord document**. 
=======
14. Select the document and select **Edit**.

15. Type some text, and when you see  **Saved** in the title bar, close the Microsoft Edge tab.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

14. In the Office 365 portal, select **Outlook**.

<<<<<<< HEAD
14. In the  **Mail** window, select **Files**, and then verify that the document has been added to the group.

15. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then sign in to  **https://outlook.office365.com** as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Select  **English (United Kingdom)** for language and select the **(UTC+00:00) Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London** time zone and then select **Save**.
=======
15. Select **Files**, and then verify that the document has been added to the group.

16. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then sign in to  **https://outlook.office365.com** as **Christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Select  **English (United Kingdom)** for language and select the **(UTC+00:00) Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London** time zone and then select **Save**.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

17. Verify that the  **Adatum Marketing** group appears in your **Groups** list.

<<<<<<< HEAD
17. Under **Groups**, select **Discover**.

18. Select  **Planning Group**, and then select  **Join**. 
=======
18. Under **Groups**, select **Discover**.

19. Select  **Planning Group**, and then select  **Join**. 
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

    > Because this is a public group, you can join the group.

<<<<<<< HEAD
19. In the left navigation pane, select  **Planning Group**, and then select  **Conversations**. Verify that you see the message that Beth sent to the group.

20. Select  **Files**, and then verify that you see the document that Beth created.
=======
20. In the left navigation pane, select  **Planning Group**, and then select  **Conversations**. Verify that you see the message that Beth sent to the group.

21. Select  **Files**, and then verify that you see the document that Beth created.
>>>>>>> 564fac958c055fa078a71c9b7d1045dffc25797e

22. Close Microsoft Edge.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Microsoft Office 365 groups at A. Datum.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
