# Module 4: Planning and configuring directory synchronization
# Lab: Configuring directory synchronization
  
### Scenario
  
The pilot deployment of Office 365 is well underway at A. Datum. The project steering committee has made the recommendation to continue with migrating additional departments to Office 365. The first step in completing the migration is to configure directory synchronization so that user and group accounts will be synchronized for the on-premises AD DS domain rather than managing all user and group accounts in Office 365.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
- Prepare the on-premises AD DS domain for directory synchronization.
- Install and configure directory synchronization with Azure AD Connect.
- Manage user and group accounts by using directory synchronization.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 90 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1**, **20347A-LON-DS1**, **20347A-LON-CL1**, and **20347A-LON-CL2**

User Name:  **Adatum\\Administrator, Adatum\\Beth, LON-CL2\\Francisco**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** with your unique Office 365 Name displayed in the online lab portal.
- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace the **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** with your unique hostdomain.com Name displayed in the online lab portal.

>  **Note:** When you connect to the Office 365 admin center, you may be prompted to provide an authentication phone and authentication email address. If you see this window, select **Cancel**. 

 This lab requires the following virtual machines:

- LON-DC1
  
  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL2

  - Sign in as  **LON-CL2\\Francisco** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

## Exercise 1: Preparing for directory synchronization
  
### Scenario
  
Before directory synchronization can be configured, there are several checks that the team needs to run, including identifying duplicate accounts in AD DS, filtering the directory, correcting UPNs, and enabling directory synchronization in Office 365.

In this exercise, you will prepare the environment for directory synchronization. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure UPN
2. Prepare problem user accounts
3. Run the IdFix tool and fix identified issues


#### Task 1: Configure UPN
  
1. Sign in to the LON-DC1 virtual machine as  **ADATUM\\Administrator** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On the Start screen, select  **Windows Administrative Tools**, and then double-click  **Active Directory Domains and Trusts**.

3. In the Active Directory Domains and Trusts window, right-click  **Active Directory Domains and Trusts**, and then select  **Properties**.

4. In the  **UPN Suffixes** tab, in the **Alternative UPN suffixes:** box, type **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select  **Add**.

5. Select  **OK**.

6. On the Start screen, right-click  **Windows PowerShell**, and then select  **Run as administrator**.

7. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-ADUser -Filter * -Properties SamAccountName | foreach { Set-ADUser $_ -UserPrincipalName ($_.SamAccountName + "@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com" )}
  ```


#### Task 2: Prepare problem user accounts
  
1. On the LON-DC1, in the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  CD C:\labfiles\
  ```

2. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted
  ```

3. To confirm the execution policy change, type **Yes** and press **Enter**.

4. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  .\CreateProblemUsers.ps1
  ```

  >  **Note:** Wait until the script has completed before proceeding to the next step.

5. This Windows PowerShell script will make the following changes in AD DS:
   - Klemen Sic. Add the "@" character to the beginning of "adatum" for the  **UserPrincipalName** attribute.
   - Lara Raisic. Replace the existing string with "lara@adatum.com" for the  **EmailAddress** attribute.
   - Logan Boyle. Replace the existing string with "lara@adatum.com" for the  **EmailAddress** attribute.
   - Lara Raisic. Replace the existing string with "lara@adatum.com" for the  **emailAddress** attribute.
   - Logan Boyle. Replace the existing string with "lara@adatum.com" for the  **emailAddress** attribute.
   - Holly Spencer. Replace the existing string with "Holly @adatum.com" for the  **EmailAddress** attribute.
   - Maj Hojski. Replace the existing string with " " for the  **emailAddress** attribute.


#### Task 3: Run the IdFix tool and fix identified issues
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [**https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=36832**](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=36832)

2. On the IdFix Directory Synchronization Error Remediation Tool page, select  **Download** and select **Save**.

3. Wait for the download to complete, and then select  **Open folder**.

4. In the **Downloads** folder, right-click **IdFix.zip**, and then select  **Extract All...**

5. In the  **Extract Compressed (Zipped) Folders** dialog box, in the destination box, type **C:\\Deployment Tools\\IdFix**, and then select  **Extract**.

6. In File Explorer, in the  **C:\\Deployment Tools\\IdFix** folder, right-click **IdFix**, and then select  **Run as administrator**.

7. In the User Account Control dialog box, enter **Administrator** as the **User name** and **Pa55w.rd** as the **Password**, then select  **Yes**.

8. In the  **IdFix Privacy Statement** message box, select **OK**.

9. Select  **Query**. You should see several errors. 

10. Select the  **ERROR** column to sort the character errors to the top of the list.

  >  **Note:** Ignore topleveldomain errors, which cannot be fixed by the IdFix tool.

11. In the Klemen Sic row, in the  **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**.

12. In the Holly Spencer row, in the  **ACTION** column, select **EDIT.**

13. In the Maj Hojski row, in the  **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**

14. On the toolbar, select  **Apply**.

15. In the  **Apply Pending** dialog box, select **Yes**; note the  **COMPLETE** status in the **ACTION** column indicating successful writes.

16. Switch to  **File Explorer**, and in the  **C:\\Deployment Tools\\IdFix** folder, double-click **Verbose &lt;date&gt; &lt;time&gt;.txt** to view the updated transactions in the transaction log.

17. Switch back to the IdFix tool.

18. On the toolbar, select  **Query**. 

19. In the  **UPDATE** column, select the Logan Boyle error, and replace the string with **logan@adatum.com**, and then in the  **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**.

20. In the  **UPDATE** column, select the Maj Hojski error, and replace the string with **maj@adatum.com**, and then in the  **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**.

21.  On the toolbar, select **Apply**.

22. In the  **Apply Pending** box, select **Yes**.

23. On the toolbar, select  **Query** and verify that errors are corrected.

  >  **Note:** Where there are format and duplicate errors for distinguished names, the UPDATE column either contains the same string as the VALUE column, or the UPDATE column entry is blank; in either case, this means that IdFix cannot suggest a remediation for the error.
  > You can either fix these errors outside IdFix, or manually remediate them within IdFix. You can also export the results and use Windows PowerShell to remediate a large number of errors.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have resolved issues in AD DS identified by the IdFix tool. 




## Exercise 2: Configuring directory synchronization
  
### Scenario
  
Now that the environment is prepared for directory synchronization, the next step is to install and configure the Azure AD Connect tool and configure an initial synchronization.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Download and install Azure AD Connect
2. Run the Azure AD Connect tool with custom settings
3. Configure synchronization service filtering for organizational units
4. Configure synchronization service filtering for object attribute
5. Verify that synchronization was successful

> **Note:** You may find that creating a new rule results in an error in step 18 of the detailed steps. This appears to be a bug in the latest version of AADConnect. An alternate procedure in the Lab Answer Key is provided in that case.


#### Task 1: Download and install Azure AD Connect
  
1. Sign in to the  **LON-DS1** as **ADATUM\\Administrator** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**. If the Networks pane appears, select  **Yes**.

2. On the Start menu, select **Server Manager**, then select **Local Server**.

3. Beside the text **IE Enhanced Security Configuration**, select on the hyperlink **On**.

  > If the hyperlink text is **Off**, go to step 5.

4. In **Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration**, below **Administrators**, select **Off** and select **OK**.

5. Start  **Internet Explorer** from the taskbar.

6. If a  **Windows Internet Explorer 10** dialog box appears, select **Use recommended security and compatibility settings**, and then select  **OK**.

7. In the **Address** box, type **https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594**, and then press Enter.

8. On the **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** download page, select **Download**.

9. In the Internet Explorer notification bar, select  **Save as**, browse to  **C:\\Labfiles**, and then select  **Save**. If the LabFiles folder does not exist, create it.

10. When the download has completed, in the Internet Explorer notification bar, select  **Open folder**.

11. In  **File Explorer**, right-click  **AzureADConnect.msi**, and then select  **Install**.

12. In the **Security Warning** dialog, select **Run**. 

13. In the **Welcome to the Microsoft Azure AD Connect Setup Wizard** page, select **I agree to the license terms and privacy notice**, and then select  **Continue**.

14. On the  **Express Settings** page, select **Customize**.

15. Leave the Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect wizard open for the next task.

    >  **Note:** Alternatively you can also search for Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect in the Microsoft Download Center and download it from there.


#### Task 2: Run the Azure AD Connect tool with custom settings
  
1. On the  **Install required components** page, leave all the checkboxes unchecked and select **Install**.

2. On the  **User Sign-in** page, select **Password Hash Synchronization**, and then select  **Next**.

3. On the  **Connect to Azure AD** page, enter the following credentials, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select **Next**:
    - User name:  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.
    - Password:  The password you created in Module 1

4. On the  **Connect your directories** page, select **Add Directory**.

5. In the **AD Forest account** dialog, select **Create new account**, enter the following credentials, and then select  **OK**:
    - User name:  **ADATUM\\Administrator**
    - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

6. Select **Next**.

7. On the  **Azure AD sign-in configuration** page, check the box next to **Continue without matching all UPN suffixes to verified domains** and select **Next**.

8. On the  **Domain and OU filtering** page, select **Sync selected domains and OUs**, expand  **Adatum.com**, clear all check boxes for the child containers except for the  **IT** checkbox, and then select **Next.**

9. On the  **Uniquely identifying your users** page, select **Next**.

10. On the  **Filter users and devices** page, verify that **Synchronize all users and devices** is selected, and then select **Next**.

11. On the  **Optional features** page, leave the default options, and then select **Next**.

12. On the  **Ready to configure** page, review the features that will be installed. Ensure that **Start the synchronization process when configuration completes** is selected, and then select **Install.**

  >  **Note:** The installation process will take approximately 10 minutes to complete.

13. Once the installation completes, on the  **Configuration complete** page, select **Exit**.

14. On the Start screen, sign out of LON-DS1, and then sign back in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** with password **Pa55w.rd.**


#### Task 3: Configure synchronization service filtering for organizational units
  
1. On LON-DS1, select  **Start**, open  **Azure AD Connect** folder, and then select on **Synchronization Service.**

2. In  **Synchronization Service Manager**, select the  **Connectors** tab.

3. In the  **Connectors** tab, double-click **Adatum.com**.

4. In the  **Properties** dialog box, select **Configure Directory Partitions**.

5. Select  **Containers**.

6. In the  **Credentials** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then select **OK**:
    - User name:  **Administrator**
    - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**
    - Domain:  **Adatum.com**

  >  **Note:** While this account is not the one used for directory synchronization, you use the account credentials temporarily to access AD DS for configuring filtering.

7. In the  **Select Containers** dialog box, select the **Research** checkbox, verify that **IT** is selected, and then select **OK**.

8. Select  **OK** to close the Properties dialog window.


#### Task 4: Configure synchronization service filtering for object attribute
  
1. On LON-DS1, open the Start screen, open  **Azure AD Connect** folder, and then select **Synchronization Rules Editor**. 

2. In  **Synchronization Rules Editor**, select  **Add new rule**. 

3. On the  **Create inbound synchronization rule** dialog window, in the **Name** box, type **In from AD - User DoNotSyncFilter**

4. For  **Connected System**, select  **Adatum.com**.

5. For  **Connected System Object Type**, select  **user**.

6. For  **Metaverse Object Type**, select  **person**.

7. For  **Link Type**, select  **Join**.

8. For  **Precedence**, enter **50**.

9. Select  **Next**.

10. In the  **Create inbound synchronization rule** dialog box, on the **Scoping filter** tab, select **Add group**, and then select  **Add clause**.

11. In  **Add scoping filters**:
    - For  **Attribute**, select  **msDS-cloudExtensionAttribute15**. 
    - For  **Operator**, select  **EQUAL**.
    - For  **Value**, type  **NoSync**, 

12. Select  **Next**.

13. On the  **Add join rules**, select  **Next**.

14. On the  **Add transformations** page, select **Add transformation**.
    - For  **FlowType**, select  **Constant**.
    - For  **Target Attribute**, select  **cloudFiltered**.
    - In the  **Source** text box, type **True**. 

15. To save the rule, select  **Add**, and then close Synchronization Rules Editor window.

16. Open Windows PowerShell from the Start menu. In Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter. The initial synchronization can take several minutes to complete. Leave the Windows PowerShell window open.

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Initial
  ```


#### Task 5: Verify that synchronization was successful
  
1. Ensure that you are signed in to the LON-DS1 as  **ADATUM\\Administrator** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On the Start screen, open Azure AD Connect folder, and then select  **Synchronization Service**.

3. In  **Synchronization Service Manager on LON-DS1**, select  **Operations**.

4. In the  **Connector Operations** list, select the line at the top of the list, and then review the **Start Time**,  **End Time**, and the  **Status**. 

5. Verify the connector has a  **Start Time** and **End Time** that aligns with the last time synchronization was initiated in the previous task.

6. On the taskbar, right-click  **Windows PowerShell**, and then select  **Run as Administrator**.

7. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, then press Enter:
  ```
  Install-Module MSOnline
  ```

8. For each of the prompts in Windows PowerShell, enter **Yes**.

9. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each one:

  ```
  Import-Module MSOnline
  Connect-MsolService
  ```

10. In the  **Enter Credentials** dialog box, enter the following credentials, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select **OK**:
    - User name:  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Password:  The password you created in Module 1

11. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolCompanyInformation | fl LastDirSyncTime
  ```

12. Verify the  **LastDirSyncTime** aligns with the last time synchronization was initiated in the previous task.

13. On the Start screen, open  **Internet Explorer**, and then type https://portal.office.com/admin/default.aspx in the address bar.

14. On the  **Sign-in** page, sign in by using the following credentials, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number:
    - User name:  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Password:  The password you created in Module 1

15. On the Microsoft 365 admin center page, in the left navigation menu, expand **Health**, then select **Directory Sync Status**.

16. On the Directory Sync Status page, verify that the **Last directory sync** was less than one hour ago.

17. On the left navigation menu, expand **Users** then select **Active users**.

18. In the Active users list, note that your on-premises accounts from the selected OUs now have a status of  **Synced with Active Directory**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have installed Azure AD Connect with customized settings. Upon completion of the installation, you will have started directory synchronization to Office 365 and have verified that synchronization was successful.




## Exercise 3: Managing Active Directory users and groups
  
### Scenario
  
Now that directory synchronization is in place and working, you need to identify how managing user and group accounts has changed with directory synchronization.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a new user and group account
2. Move a user out of the scope of synchronization
3. Move a user into the scope of synchronization
4. Change group membership
5. Force synchronization
6. Validate the results of directory synchronization


#### Task 1: Create a new user and group account
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools**, and then select  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.

2. In the console tree, expand  **Adatum.com**, right-click  **Research**, select  **New**, and then select  **User**.

3. In the  **First name** box, type **Perry**.

4. In the  **Lastname** box, type **Brill**.

5. In the  **User logon name** box, type **Perry**, select your lab domain  **UPN** (Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, not **Adatum.com**), and then select  **Next**.

6. In the  **Password** and **Confirm password** boxes, type the password you created in Module 1, clear the  **User must change password at next logon** checkbox, select **Next**, and then select  **Finish**.

7. In the  **Research** OU user list, double-click the **Perry Brill** user.

8. In the  **Properties** dialog box, in the **E-mail** box, type **Perry@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select  **OK**.

9. In the console tree, right-click the  **Research** OU, select **New**, and then select  **Group**.

10. In the New Object - Group window, in the  **Group name:** box, type **Project Team**, select  **Universal**, select  **Distribution**, and then select  **OK**.

11. In the  **Research** OU, double-click the **Project Team** group.

12. In the  **Properties** dialog window, in the **E-mail** box, type **projectteam@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number.

13. On the  **Members** tab, select **Add**.

14. In the  **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select**, type the following names, and then select  **Check Names**:
    - Arturs Priede
    - August Towle
    - Cai Chu

15. Select  **OK** twice.


#### Task 2: Move a user out of the scope of synchronization
  
1. Switch to LON-DS1.

2. On LON-DS1, at the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -Search Vera
  ```

3. Verify that the user Vera Pace is listed in Office 365.

4. On LON-DC1, in Active Directory Users and Computers, move Vera Pace from the Research OU to the Sales OU, by right-clicking  **Vera Pace** in the Research OU user list, and then clicking **Move** and selecting **Sales** OU. Select **OK**.


#### Task 3: Move a user into the scope of synchronization
  
1. On LON-DC1, ensure that the  **Active Directory Users and Computers** is opened.

2. In the console tree, if needed expand  **Adatum.com**, and then select  **Marketing**.

3. Right-click  **Ada Russell**, and select  **Move**.

4. In the  **Move** dialog box, expand **Adatum.com**, select  **Research**, and then select  **OK**.


#### Task 4: Change group membership
  
1. In the console tree of  **Active Directory Users and Computers**, select  **Research**.

2. In the right pane, double-click  **Research**.

3. In the  **Research Properties** dialog box, select the **Members** tab.

4. Select the following three users, and then select  **Remove**. In the confirmation dialog box, select  **Yes**.
    - Claire Roberson
    - Connie Vaughn
    - Esther Wiggins

5. Select  **OK**.


#### Task 5: Force synchronization
  
1. On LON-DS1, from the taskbar, right-click the  **Windows PowerShell** shortcut, and then select **Run as administrator**.

  >  **Note:** If a **User Account Control** dialog box appears, select **Yes**.

2. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta
  ```

  >  **Note:** The **Delta** switch is used here so that only the updates are synchronized.

3. Wait until synchronization has completed before proceeding to the next task.


#### Task 6: Validate the results of directory synchronization
  
1. To verify the new user you created, on LON-CL1, open the Office 365 Admin Center in Microsoft Edge by typing  **https://portal.office.com/adminportal/home** in the address bar.

2. Sign in using the following credentials, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number:
    - User name:  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Password:  The password you created in Module 1

3. In the  **Office 365 Admin Center**, in the left navigation, select  **Users**, and then select  **Active Users**.

4. In the  **Active Users** list, select **Perry** **Brill**.

5. Next to Contact information select **Edit**.

6. Verify that the message **This user is synchronized with your local Active Directory** appears and close the dialog.

7. Next to Product licenses section, select  **Edit**.

8. On the  **Product licenses** page, in the **Location** drop-down menu, select **United** **Kingdom**, and then select on the icon next to  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**.

9. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

10. Repeat the steps 4-9 to assign Office 365 license for user Ada Russell.

11. To verify that you have created the new group, in  **Office 365 admin center**, in the left navigation, select  **Groups**, and then select  **Groups**.

12. In the  **Groups** list, verify that the **Project Team** appears.

  >  **Note:** You might need to wait up to 10 minutes before the group appears. Refresh the list until you see the object.

13. In the  **Groups** list, select the Project Team group.

  >  **Note:** In the right pane, notice that **Edit Members** is unavailable. This is because group membership is maintained by Active Directory. To view the membership, you need to use Windows PowerShell.

14. On LON-DS1, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroup
  ```

15. Verify that you see Research and Project Team groups. Copy the ObjectID value for these two groups.

16. To verify that you updated the group membership in AD DS, type the following command at the Windows PowerShell prompt, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId <ObjectID for Research group>
  ```

17. Verify the membership of the group does not contain the users removed in AD DS. The users who were removed from the group are:
    - Claire Roberson
    - Connie Vaughn
    - Esther Wiggins

18. To verify that you have moved the user, Vera Pace, out of the scope of synchronization, type the following command at the Windows PowerShell prompt, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -Search Vera
  ```

19. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolAccountSku
  ```

  >  **Note:** The number of **Consumed Units** is now less than before.

20. Leave the virtual machines running for the next lab. 


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have identified how managing user and group accounts has changed with directory synchronization.



## 
  
**Question** 
How do you configure OU level filtering for directory synchronization?

 Synchronization Service Manager is used to configure details of the synchronization tasks to be performed during directory synchronization operations, including configuration of OU level filtering.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  