# Module 13: Planning and configuring identify federation
# Lab: Planning and configuring identity federation
  
### Scenario
  
Directory synchronization is working well, and it has resolved the issue of managing user accounts in two locations. However, the security group at A. Datum is concerned that users will be able to log on directly to Office 365, which reduces their options for monitoring user logons. To ensure that all users will authenticate using the on-premises AD DS domain, you have decided to implement AD FS.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you should be able to:
- Install and configure AD FS and Web Application Proxy via Azure AD Connect.
- Verify that SSO is working.


Note: The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1**, **20347A-LON-DS1**,  **20347A-LON-WAP1**, **20347A-LON-CL1**, and **20347-LON-CL3

User name:  **Adatum/Administrator**, **Adatum/Beth**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:
- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** with your unique Office 365 domain name provided to you by your instructor.
- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace the **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** and **hostdomain** with your unique UPN name provided to you by your instructor.


This lab requires the following virtual machines:

- LON-DC1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-WAP1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Deploying Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) and Web Application Proxy
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation has decided to deploy AD FS and Web Application Proxy to provide SSO for Office 365. You will start the implementation by installing and configuring the AD FS and Web Application Proxy roles.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Add DNS records required for AD FS
2. Create an Office 365 administrator account
3. Configure and verify Azure AD Connect federation with AD FS


#### Task 1: Add DNS records required for AD FS
  
1. Sign in to the  **LON-DS1** virtual machine as **ADATUM\\Administrator** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On LON-DS1, select  **Start** and then select **Windows PowerShell**.

3. Type  **IPConfig** and press Enter.

4. Record the IPv4 address assigned to the server. 

5. On LON-DC1, open Server Manager, select  **Tools**, and then select  **DNS**.

6. Expand  **LON-DC1**, expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**, and then select **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number.

7. Right-click  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, and then select  **New Host (A or AAAA)**.

8. In the New Host dialog box, leave the Name box empty, in the  **IP address** box, type the External IP address provided by the hosting partner.

9. Select  **Add Host**, and then select  **OK**. 

10. In the New Host dialog box, leave the Name box empty, in the  **IP address** box, type the LON-DS1 IP address that you recorded in Step 3.

11. Select  **Add Host**, select  **OK**, and then select  **Done**.


#### Task 2: Create an Office 365 administrator account

1. On LON-CL1, in the Microsoft 365 Admin center, select **Users**, then select **Active users**.

2. Select **Add a user**.

3. In the **Display name** field, enter **Admin**.

4. In the **Username** field, enter **admin** and verify that **Adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, is selected as the **Domain**.

5. Under **Password**, select **Let me create the password**, and enter the password you created on Module 1.

6. Clear the **Make this user change their password when they first sign in** option.

7. Under **Roles**, select **Global administrator**.

8. Under **Product licenses**, enable the **Create user without product license** option, then select **Add**.

9. Close the **Admin** user window.


#### Task 3: Configure and verify Azure AD Connect federation with AD FS
  
1. Switch to **LON-DS1**.

2. On the Desktop, double-click **Azure AD connect**.

3. Select **Configure**.

4. Select **Change user sign-in** and select **Next**.

5. Sign in as **Admin@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with password created in Module 1

6. Select **Federation with AD FS**, then select **Next**.

7. On the **Domain Administrator credentials** page, enter the USERNAME **ADATUM\\Administrator** and PASSWORD **Pa55w.rd**, then select **Next**.

8. Select **Use a certificate installed on the federation servers** and select **Browse**.

9. In the **Search** box enter **LON-DS1** and select the Search icon.

10. Select **LON-DS1.Adatum.com**, then select **OK**.

11. In the **CERTIFICATE FILE** drop-down, select the certificate provided by the lab provider.

12. In the **SUBJECT NAME** drop-down, select the subject name that matches the certificate.

13. In the **SUBJECT NAME PREFIX** box enter **Adatumyyxxxxx**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and select **Next**.

14. On the **AD FS servers** page select **Browse**.

15. In the **Search** box type **LON-DS1** and select the Search icon.

16. Select **LON-DS1** then select **OK**.

17. After the connection has been verified, select **Next**.

18. On the **Web Application Proxy servers** page, select **Browse**.

19. In the **Search** box type **LON-WAP1** and select the Search icon.

20. Select **LON-WAP1**, select **OK**, then select **Next**.

21. On the **AD FS service account** page, select **Create a group Managed Service Account**, enter the following **ENTERPRISE ADMIN USERNAME** credentials, then select **Next**:
    - User name: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**    

22. On the **Azure AD Domain** page, in the drop-down select **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, and select **Next**.

23. On the **Ready to configure** page, select **Configure**.

24. On the  **Configuration complete** page, select  **Next**.

25. On the **Verify federation configuration** page, verify both options are checked and select **Verify**.

    > The wizard will verify the AD FS server resolves to both internal and external DNS.
    > You may need to select **Verify** multiple times to verify external DNS.

26. Select **Exit**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have deployed the AD FS server in a federation server farm, and deployed the Web Application Proxy server to support AD FS.




## Exercise 2: Verifying single sign-on (SSO)
  
### Scenario
  
You need to verify that identity federation is properly configured by verifying that SSO authentication is successful for internal and external users.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Verify SSO for internal users
2. Verify SSO for external users


#### Task 1: Verify SSO for internal users
  
1. Switch to **LON-CL3**.

2. On LON-CL3, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

3. Type  **beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, as the user name, and then press Tab.

4. Verify that you are redirected to the Adatum sign in page.

5. Type  **Pa55w.rd** as the password, and then press Enter.

6. Verify that you are connected to Office 365. 

7. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 2: Verify SSO for external users
  
1. On your local computer, open a Web browser (use an **InPrivate browsing** window, if possible). 

2. In the Address bar, type  **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.

3. Type  **grover@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, as the user name, and then press Tab.

4. Verify that you are redirected to the Adatum sign in page.

5. Type  **Pa55w.rd** as the password, and then press Enter.

6. Review the Office 365 page for Grover Chambliss, and then close the Web browser window.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have verified SSO authentication to Office 365 for a user on your corporate network and for a user on your host computer that is connected to the Internet.



## 


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  