# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Planning and provisioning Office 365

# Lab: Provisioning Office 365
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring an Office 365 tenant
  
#### Task 1: Create the tenant account
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, logged on as  **Adatum\\Beth**, on the Task bar, select **Microsoft Edge**.

2. In the address bar, type  [**https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office-365-enterprise-e5-business-software**](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office-365-enterprise-e5-business-software), and then press Enter.

3. Select  **Free trial**.

4. For Step 1, in the  **Welcome, let's get to know you** page, complete the following fields. Regardless of your location, use the following information:

    - Country:  **United Kingdom**
    - First name:  **Beth**
    - Last name:  **Burke**
    - Business email address: (use your new Microsoft account that you created for this course)
    - Business phone number: Your mobile phone number, including international code for your current country
    - Company name:  **A. Datum**
    - Organization size:  **50-249 people**


5. Select  **Next**.

6. For Step 2, in the  **Create your user ID** page, you have to create a unique domain for the Company name to use in the course. Use the **Adatumyyxxxxx** name provided in the lab interface. You will need to create and confirm a unique password, also. Write it down. You will need to use it later. For the rest of the fields, use the following information:

    - User name:  **Beth**
    - Company name:  **Adatumyyxxxxx** (where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number)

7. Select  **Create my account.**

8. For Step 3, on the  **Prove. You're. Not. A. Robot.** page, you have to confirm your identity using your mobile phone. Under **Text me** from the drop-down box, select the code for the country that you are now in.

9. In the  **Phone number** box, enter your correct mobile phone number.

10. Ensure that the **Text me** option is selected, and then select **Text me**.

11. When you receive the confirmation text on your mobile phone, enter the code provided in the  **Enter your verification code** box.

12. Select  **Next**.

13. Wait until the Office 365 tenant is provisioned, note your sign in data, and then select  **You're ready to go...**

14. Select the  **Admin** tile to go to the Office 365 admin center. If a confirm your current password page appears, select **re-enter my password**, and type  the password you created earlier.

15. If the  **Welcome to the new Office365 admin center** window appears, close it.



#### Task 2: Verify Office 365 service health
  
1. Select  **Health** on the left-hand menu, then select **Service health** to display the Service health dashboard.

2. In the left pane, view the status of the Office 365 services. If any services are showing a status other than  **healthy**, select the service. 

3. Review any service interruption records or additional information in the status page.

  >  **Note:** During Microsoft testing, on rare occasions Office 365 did not create the trial tenant properly; as a result, the tenant did not have all the services available to it. If this happens to you, you should create a new trial tenant using a different business email (Microsoft account).

4. Close Microsoft Edge. 

5. If prompted, select  **Close all**.




>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully provisioned the Office 365 tenant account for A. Datum Corporation.


## Exercise 2: Configuring a custom domain
  
#### Task 1: Add the custom domain
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, start Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** with the password you created earlier. 

3. Select  **Admin**.

4. In the left-hand menu, point to **Setup** and then select  **Domains**.

5. Select  **Add domain**. 

6. In the New Domain window, in the text box enter your domain name in the form of  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**. 

7. Select  **Next**.

8. On the  **Verify domain** page, select **Add a TXT record instead**. 

9. Write down the  **TXT** record shown in the **TXT value** column. This entry will be similar to MS=msXXXXXXXX. Record this value below:

  MS=_______________________

10. Switch to  **LON-DC1**.

11. From the Start menu, select  **Server Manager**. 

12. Select  **Tools**, and then select  **DNS**.

13. Expand  **LON-DC1**, and select  **Forward Lookup Zones**.

14. Right-click  **Forward Lookup Zones** and select **New Zone**.

15. On the  **New Zone Wizard** page, select **Next**.

16. On the  **Zone Type** page, verify that **Primary zone** is selected. Clear the **Store the zone in Active Directory** check box, and select **Next**.

17. On the  **Zone Name** page, type **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** and select **Next**.

18. On the  **Zone File** page, select **Next**.

19. On the  **Dynamic Update** page, select **Next**, and then select  **Finish**. 

20. Expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**, select and then Right-click  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then select  **Other New Records**.

21. Under  **Select a resource record type**, scroll down to  **Text (TXT)**, and then select  **Create Record**.

22. In the  **New Resource Record** box, leave the **Record name** field blank.

23. In the  **Text** field, enter **MS=msXXXXXXXX** that you recorded in Step 9.

24. Select  **OK** to create the record.

25. In the  **Resource Record type** dialog box, select **Done**.

26. Right-click  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and select  **New Host (A or AAAA)**.

27. In the  **New Host** box, Under **Name**, type the name of the external name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider.

28. Under  **IP address**, provide the IP address of the external name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider.

29. Select  **Add Host**, select **OK,** and then select **Done**.

30. Double-click the  **Start of Authority (SOA)** record and replace the **Primary Server** reference with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider. Select **OK**.

31. Double-click the  **Name Server (NS)** record, and select **Edit**. Replace the  **Server fully qualified domain name (FQDN)** name with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider. Select **Resolve**, and then select  **OK** twice.

32. Switch back to  **LON-CL1** and in the Office 365 Admin center, select **Verify**.



#### Task 2: Completing the custom domain setup
  
1. On the  **Set up your online services** page, if it appears, accept the default setting of **I'll manage my own DNS records**, and then select  **Next**.

2. On the  **Update DNS settings** page, review the DNS records that you should add to the domain, select the **Skip this step** check box, and select **Skip**.

3. Select  **Finish**. The domain shows a warning icon because you did not verify the DNS records. You can ignore this warning for now.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have: 
>  - Added a custom domain. 
>  - Verified domain ownership.


## Exercise 3: Exploring the Office 365 administrator interfaces
  
#### Task 1: Explore the Office 365 admin center
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the Admin center, select  **Home**.

2. On the left navigation menu, scroll down to explore all available items. Expand items such as Users, Groups, Settings, etc.

3. On the left navigation menu, expand  **Users**, and then select  **Active users**.

4. Review the users list.

5. On the left navigation menu, expand  **Health**, and then select  **Message center**, and then in the right pane, review the messages.

6. Do not close the browser window.



#### Task 2: Explore the Exchange admin center
  
1. On the left navigation menu, expand  **Admin centers**, and then select  **Exchange**.

2. A new tab will open displaying  **Exchange admin center**.

3. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.



#### Task 3: Explore the Skype for Business admin center
  
1. Select the  **Office Admin center** tab.

2. On the left navigation menu, under  **Admin centers**, select  **Skype for Business**.

3. A new tab will open displaying  **Skype for Business admin center**.

4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.


#### Task 4: Explore the SharePoint admin center
  
1. Select the  **Office Admin center** tab.

2. On the left navigation menu, select  **Admin centers**, and then select  **SharePoint**.

3. A new tab will open displaying  **SharePoint admin center**.

4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.

5. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 5: Explore the SharePoint admin center
  
1. Select the  **Office Admin center** tab.

2. On the left navigation menu, select  **Admin centers**, and then select  **OneDrive**.

3. A new tab will open displaying  **OneDrive admin center**.

4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.

5. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 6: Explore the Office 365 Security &amp; Compliance Center
  
1. Select the  **Office Admin center** tab.

2. On the left navigation menu, select  **Admin centers**, and then select  **Security &amp; Compliance**.

3. A new tab will open displaying  **Security &amp; Compliance admin center**.

4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and then review the results displayed in the right pane.

5. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 7: To prepare for the next module
  
Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have provided a high-level overview of administrative portals of Office 365.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
