# Lab Answer Key:  Module 3: Configuring client connectivity to Microsoft Office 365
# Lab: Configuring client connectivity to Office 365
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring DNS records for Office 365 clients
  
#### Task 1: Review the recommended DNS records in the Office 365 admin center
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge.

2. Browse to  **http://portal.office.com**, and then sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replacing  *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and with the password you created in Module 1.

3. In the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin.**

4. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the menu to the left, expand  **Setup**, select  **Domains**, and then review the domain names assigned to the  **Adatum** tenant.

5. In the Domains window, select  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number.

6. Select **DNS errors detected, click here to view** and review the DNS errors shown.

7. Close the dialog. 


#### Task 2: Configure the DNS records for external clients
  
  **Configure DNS settings for Exchange Online**

1. On LON-DC1, open Server Manager.

2. In Server Manager, select the  **Tools** menu, and then select **DNS**.

3. In DNS Manager, expand  **LON-DC1**, and then expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**.

4. Click, and then right-click  **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, and then select  **New Alias (CNAME)**.

5. In the  **Aliasname** text box, type **autodiscover** as the alias name.

6. In the  **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host** text box, type **autodiscover.outlook.com**.

7. Select  **OK**.

8. Right-click **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, and then select  **New Mail Exchanger (MX)**.

9. In the  **Mail Exchanger (MX)** dialog box, in the **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of mail server** text box, type **adatumyyxxxxx-hostdomain-com.mail.protection.outlook.com**.

10. Select  **OK**.


  **Configure DNS settings for Skype for Business Online**

1. On LON-DC1, right-click the **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** zone, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, and then select **Other New Records**.

2. In the  **Resource Record Type** dialog box, scroll down the list, select **Service Location**, and then select  **Create Record**.

3. On the  **Service Location (SRV)** tab, enter the following information, and then select **OK**:
    - Service:  **\_sip**
    - Protocol:  **\_tls**
    - Priority:  **100**
    - Weight:  **1**
    - Port number:  **443**
    - Host offering this service:  **sipdir.online.lync.com**
    - Time to live:  **1 hour (default)**

4. In the  **Resource Record Type** dialog box, select **Create Record**. 

5. On the  **Service Location (SRV)** tab, enter the following information, and then select **OK**:
    - Service:  **\_sipfederationtls**
    - Protocol:  **\_tcp**
    - Priority:  **100**
    - Weight:  **1**
    - Port number:  **5061**
    - Host offering this service:  **sipfed.online.lync.com**
    - Time to live:  **1 hour (default)**

6. In the  **Resource Record Type** dialog box, scroll back up the list, select **Alias (CNAME)**, and then select  **Create Record**.

7. On the  **Alias (CNAME)** tab, enter the following information, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select **OK**:
    - Alias name:  **sip**
    - Fully qualified domain name:  **sip.adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host:  **sipdir.online.lync.com**
    - Time to live:  **1 hour (default)**

8. In the  **Resource Record Type** dialog box, select **Create Record**. 

9. On the  **Alias (CNAME)** tab, enter the following information, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select **OK**:
    - Alias name:  **lyncdiscover**
    - Fully qualified domain name:  **lyncdiscover.adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host:  **webdir.online.lync.com**
    - Time to live:  **1 hour (default)**

10. In the  **Resource Record Type** dialog box, select **Done**. 


**Configure DNS settings for Mobile Device Management**

1. On LON-DC1, right-click the **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** zone, and then select **Other New Records**.

2. In the  **Resource Record Type** dialog box, scroll back up the list, select **Alias (CNAME)**, and then select  **Create Record**.

3. On the  **Alias (CNAME)** tab, enter the following information, and then select **OK**:
    - Alias name:  **EnterpriseEnrollment**
    - Fully qualified domain name:  **EnterpriseEnrollment.adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host:  **EnterpriseEnrollment.manage.microsoft.com**
    - Time to live:  **1 hour (default)**

4. In the  **Resource Record Type** dialog box, select **Create Record**. 

5. On the  **Alias (CNAME)** tab, enter the following information, and then select **OK**:
    - Alias name:  **EnterpriseRegistration**
    - Fully qualified domain name:  **EnterpriseRegistration.adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host:  **EnterpriseRegistration.windows.net**
    - Time to live:  **1 hour (default)**

6. In the  **Resource Record Type** dialog box, select **Done**.

7. Switch back to LON-CL1, and then in the Office 365 admin console, select  **Check DNS**, and then select **DNS errors detected, click here to view**.

8. You should now see that most records are not listed anymore (you should see msoid and SPF records). Close the page.

9. In the top bar, select  **Office 365** apps icon.

10. Select  **Outlook**.

11. On the Outlook page, select your time zone and select  **Save**. 

12. In the upper right corner, select your user icon and select  **Sign in to IM**, if the link appears.

13. On LON-CL2, verify that you are signed in as Francisco. 

14. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

15. Sign in as  **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, by using the password you created in Module 1.

16. In the Office 365 portal, select  **Outlook**.

17. On the Outlook page, select your time zone, and then select  **Save**. 

18. In the upper right corner, select your user icon and select  **Sign in to IM**, if the link appears.

19. In the upper-left corner, select the  **New** button.

20. In the  **To** text box, type **Beth Burke**.

21. When the name resolves, note her instant message (IM) status. It might take a couple of minutes for her status to update.

22. Select  **Beth Burke** in the **To** text box.

23. Note that you now view the availability status of another user.

24. Close the IM window, and then close the Microsoft Edge windows on both virtual machines.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have:
>  - Reviewed the recommended DNS records in the Office 365 admin center.
>  - Configured the DNS records for external clients.
>  - Configured the DNS records for internal clients.




## Exercise 2: Running the Office 365 connectivity analyzer tools
  
#### Task 1: Run the Microsoft Connectivity Analyzer tool
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge.

2. In the address bar, type  **https://testconnectivity.microsoft.com/**.

3. On the  **Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer** page, select the **Office 365** tab.

4. On the  **Office 365** tab, select **Office 365 Exchange Domain Name Server (DNS) Connectivity Test**, and then select  **Next**.

5. Under  **Domain Name**, type  **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number.

6. Under  **Verification**, type the characters that you can see in the verification field, and then select  **Verify**.
 
>  **Note:** The verification code is not case-sensitive.

7. Select  **Perform Test**.

  >  **Note:** If you receive a message about having performed too many tests in 60 seconds, wait for a minute and then repeat the test.

8. When you see **Connectivity Test Successful**, under  **Test Details**, expand  **Test Steps**, and then review the checks that were made against the Exchange Online domain.

9. Select  **Start Over**.

10. On the  **Office 365** tab, select **Office 365** **Lync Domain Name Server (DNS) Connectivity Test**, and then select  **Next**.

11. In the  **Sign-in address** text box, type **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select  **Perform Test**.

>  **Note:** If you receive a message about having performed too many tests in 60 seconds, wait for a minute and then repeat the test.

12. When you see  **Connectivity Test Successful**, under  **Test Details**, expand  **Test Steps**, and then review the checks that were made against the Skype for Business Online domain.

13. Select  **Start Over**.

14. Under  **Microsoft Office Outlook Connectivity Tests**, select  **Outlook Connectivity**, and then select  **Next**.

15. On the Outlook Connectivity page, in  **Email Address** and **Microsoft Account**, type  **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number.

16. In the  **Password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type the password you created in Module 1.

17. Select  **Use Autodiscover to detect server settings**.

18. Select  **I understand that I must use the credentials of a working account from my Exchange domain to be able to test connectivity to it remotely. I also acknowledge that I am responsible for the management and security of this account**.

19. Select  **Perform Test**.

20. When you see  **Connectivity Test Successful with Warnings**, under  **Test Details**, expand  **Test Steps**, and then review the checks that were made against  **Outlook**. Note in particular the message that contains information about the  **Autodiscover** steps that fail.

21. Under  **Run Test Again** at the top-right corner of the window, note that you can copy this test to the clipboard, or save it as an XML or HTML file.

22. Select **Start Over**.


#### Task 2: Run the Office 365 Support and Recovery Assistant
  
1. In the Microsoft Connectivity Analyzer window, on the  **Client** tab, in the **Microsoft Support and Recovery Assistant for Office 365** section, select **Support and Recovery Assistant download**. 

2. On the new web page that opens, select  **Download now** and then select **Save**. 

3. Wait for the download to finish, and then select  **Run**.

4. In the  **Application Install - Security Warning** window, select **Install**.

5. In the Microsoft Support and Recovery Assistant for Office 365 window, select  **I agree**, then select  **Advanced diagnostics**, and then select  **Next**.

6. On the next page, select  **Exchange Online** and select **Next**.

7. On the Select the diagnostic you'd like to run page, select  **Perform authentication checks** and select **Next** and then select **Yes** and select **Next** again.

8. On the next page, type  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, type the password you created in Module 1 as password, select  **Keep me signed in** and then select **Next**.

9. Wait until Office 365 Support and Recovery assistant generates the results.

10. Review the details, and then close the window.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have:
>   - Run the Microsoft Connectivity Analyzer tool.
>   - Run the Office 365 Client Performance Analyzer tool.




## Exercise 3: Connecting Office clients
  
#### Task 1: Verify that Outlook can connect to Office 365
  
1. On LON-CL1, start Outlook. 

2. On the  **Welcome to Outlook** page, select **Next**.

3. On the  **Add an Email Account** page, select **Next**. 

4. On the  **Auto Account Setup** page, type the following information, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select **Next**:
    - Your Name:  **Beth Burke**
    - E-mail Address:  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**
    - Password:  The password you created in Module 1
    - Retype Password:  The password you created in Module 1

5. In the  **Windows Security** dialog box, type the password you created in Module 1 as the password, select **Sign in**. 

6. Verify that you are connected to Exchange Online, and then select  **Finish**.

7. In the First things first dialog box, select  **Ask me later**, and then select  **Accept**. 

8. On LON-CL2, repeat steps 1 through 7 by using the following information, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number:
    - Your Name:  **Francisco Chaves**
    - E-mail Address:  **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Password:  The password you created in Module 1
    - Retype Password:  The password you created in Module 1


#### Task 2: Verify that Skype for Business can connect to Office 365
  
1. On LON-CL1, start Skype for Business by clicking on  **Start** button and typing **Skype**. In the Apps list select  **Skype for Business**.

2. Close the Welcome - Skype for Business dialog box.

3. On the  **Skype for Business sign in** page, type **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, as the **Sign-in address**, and then select  **Sign in**.

4. In the Help Make Skype for Business Better! dialog box, if it appears, select  **No**. Verify that you are connected to Skype for Business Online.

5. On LON-CL2, repeat steps 1 through 4 by using the following information, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number:
    - Sign-in address:  **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
    - Password:  The password you created in Module 1

6. Keep the virtual machines running for the next module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have verified:
>  - That Outlook can connect to Office 365.
>  - That Skype for Business can connect to Office 365.




## Exercise 4: Configuring MDM in Office 365

#### Task 1: Enable MDM in Office 365

1. On LON-CL1, in Microsoft Edge, navigate to **https://portal.office.com/EAdmin/Device/IntuneInventory.aspx** and sign in as Beth.

2. On the **Set up Mobile Device Management for Office 365** page, select **Let’s get started**. 

3. On the **Need one thing from you before we set everything up…** page, accept the default security group and then select **Start setup**. 

> The initialization process can take considerable time to complete.


#### Task 2: Create a security group

1. In Microsoft Edge, open an new tab, browse to **http://portal.office.com**, and select **Admin**.

2. In the Microsoft 365 Admin center navigation pane, expand **Groups**, and then select **Groups**.

3. In the details pane, select **Add a group**.

4. In the **New Group** dialog box, in the **Type** list, select **Security**.

5. In the **Name** box, type **Windows Devices**, select **Add**, and then select **Close**.

6. Select **Windows Devices**.

7. In the **Windows Devices** window, next to **Members (0)**, select **Edit**.

8. Click **Add members**.

9. In the **Search to add members** box, type **Beth Burke**, select **Beth Burke**, select **Save**, and then select **Close** twice.

10. Repeat steps 7 to 9, and add Francisco Chaves to the group.


#### Task 3: Create an MDM policy

1. Open the **Security & Compliance** admin center, in the navigation pane, expand **Data loss prevention**, and then select **Device management**.

2. Select **Device policies** then select **Create a policy**.

3. In the **New device security policy** wizard, on the **Name your policy** page, in the **Name** box, type **Windows Devices**.

4. In the **Description** box, type **A Datum policies for Windows devices**, and then select **Next**.

5. On the **What requirements do you want to have on devices?** page, configure the following settings, and then select **Next**: 
    - **Require a password**: Enabled 
    - **Minimum password length**: 4
    - **Block access and report violation**

6. On the **What else do you want to configure?** page, enable the following settings, and then select **Next**:
    - **Block screen capture**
    - **Block connection with removable storage**
    - **Block Bluetooth connection**

7. On the **Do you want to apply this policy now?** page, select **Yes**.

8. On the **Do you want to apply this policy now?** page, select **Add**.

9. From the **Groups** list, select the group with the **Display Name** of **Windows Devices**, and then select **Add**.

10. Select **Next**, select **Create this policy**, then select **Close**.

11. Keep the virtual machines running for the next module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have:
>  - Enabled mobile device management in Office 365.
>  - Created a security group.
>  - Created an MDM policy and applied it to the security group


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
