# Lab Answer Key:  Module 11: Planning and configuring Rights Management and compliance
# Lab: Configuring Rights Management and compliance

  
## Exercise 1: Configuring Rights Management in Office 365
  
#### Task 1: Activate Rights Management in Office 365
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [https://portal.office.com](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in to the Microsoft Office 365 portal as  **Beth@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number with the password you created in Module 1.

3. In the app launcher, select the  **Admin** icon.

4. In the Office 365 admin center, select  **Settings** and then select **Services &amp; add-ins**. 

5. Select  **Microsoft Azure Information Protection**.

6. On the **Microsoft Azure Information Protection** page, select **Manage Microsoft Azure Information Protection settings**.

7. On the **rights management** page, verify that rights management is activated.
  
> **NOTE:** If rights management is not activated:  
  1. Select **activate**.  
  2. When prompted with  **Do you want to activate Rights Management?**, select  **activate.**



#### Task 2: Verify Rights Management settings for Exchange Online
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the search box on the taskbar, type  **PowerShell**.

2. In the search results, right-click  **Windows PowerShell**, and then select  **Run as administrator**.

3. When the **User Account Control** dialog box appears, provide the following credentials and select **Yes**:
  - User name: **Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4. Type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command to connect to remote Exchange Online with remote PowerShell. Use Beth's credentials to connect.

```
$Cred = Get-Credential
$Session = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/ -Credential $Cred -Authentication Basic -AllowRedirection 
Import-PSSession $Session -DisableNameChecking
```

5. Type the following command, and then press Enter to view the IRM configuration.

```
Get-IRMConfiguration
```

6. In the result, verify that values for the first nine variables are set to **True** (except for **TransportDecryptionSetting** which can have value **Optional**).

7. Type the following command, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then press Enter to test the configuration. 

```
Test-IRMConfiguration -Sender Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
```

8. Verify that you receive  **OVERALL RESULT: PASS** message at the end of the test results.

9. Type the following command, press Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell.

```
Remove-PSSession $Session
```



#### Task 3: Configure Rights Management for SharePoint Online
  
1. In Edge, open the Office 365 admin center.

  >**NOTE:** If the Microsoft Azure Information Protection page is open, select **Close**.

2. Under  **Admin centers**, select  **SharePoint** then **Classic SharePoint admin center**.

3. Select  **settings**.

4. Next to **Information Rights Management (IRM)**, select **Use the IRM service specified in your configuration**.

5. Select **Refresh IRM Settings**, then select **OK**.



#### Task 4: Validate the Azure Rights Management functionality
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Word. 

2. In the Word window, at the top right corner, select  **Switch account**.

3. In the **Accounts** dialog box, select  **Add Account**.

4. Verify you are signed in as **Beth@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number with the password you created in Module 1.

5. Close Word.

6. Open Outlook. 

7. Create a new email with  **Christie Thomas** as the recipient.

8. Type a subject, and then type some text in the message body.

9. On the  **Options** tab, select **Permission**, and then select  **Connect to the Rights Management Server and get templates**. If Windows Security window appears, select  **OK** and sign in with Beth's credentials.

10. Select  **Permission** again, and then select **Do Not Forward**.

11. Send the message.

12. In **Microsoft Edge**, connect to **https://adatum*yyxxxxx*.sharepoint.com/sites/adatummarketing**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number. 

13. Select **Documents**, select the  **settings** icon, and then select **Library settings**.

14. On the **Settings** page, under Permissions and Management, select **Information Rights Management**.

15. On the **Information Rights Management Settings** page, select the **Restrict permissions on this library on download** checkbox.

16. In the **Create a permission policy title** box, type **Marketing Policy**.

17. In the **Add a permission policy description** box, type **Marketing policy for downloads.**

18. Select **SHOW OPTIONS**.

19. Under **Configure document access rights**, select the  **Allow viewers to write on a copy of the downloaded document** checkbox.

20. Select  **OK**.

21. Close Microsoft Edge.

22. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [https://portal.office.com](https://portal.office.com). Sign in as  **Christie@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created on Module 1. 

23. In the Office 365 portal, in the App launcher, select **Outlook**.

24. On the **Outlook** page, select your time zone and select  **Save**.

25. Verify that you received an email from Beth that is IRM protected. Select the message. 

  > You may need to wait for Outlook Web Access to update with the IRM template.  
  > You can also use LON-CL3 to check mail using Outlook.

26. Select the down arrow beside  **Reply all**, and then verify that you do not have the option to forward or print the message. 

27. In Microsoft Edge, connect to **https://adatum*yyxxxxx*.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number. 

28. Select **Documents**, and then select  **Document.docx**.

29. After the document opens, try to edit it in Word Online. Verify that you get a message that the document is read-only.

30. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured Rights Management for Exchange Online and SharePoint Online.


## Exercise 2: Configuring compliance features
  
#### Task 1: Configure Security &amp; Compliance Center permissions and audit logging
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [https://portal.office.com](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as **Beth@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number with the password you created in Module 1.

3. Select  **Admin**.

4. Expand  **Admin centers** and then select **Security**.  

5. In the **Security &amp; Compliance Center**, select  **Permissions**.

6. Select  **Compliance Administrator**.

7. On the  **Compliance Administrator** page, next to Members, select **Edit**. 

8. Select **Choose members**, select **Add**, select  **Beth Burke**, select  **Add**, and then select  **Done**.

9. Select  **Save**, and then select **Close**.

10. Next to **To assign permissions for archiving, auditing and retention policies** select **go to the Exchange admin center**.

11. Select  **Compliance Management**, and then select  **Edit**.

12. On the  **Compliance Management** page, under **Members**, select  **Add**. 

13. In the Select Members window, select  **Beth Burke**, select  **add**, and then select  **OK**.

14. Select  **Save**.

15. Select  **Recipient Management**, and then select  **Edit**.

16. On the  **Recipient Management** page, under **Members**, select  **Add**. 

17. In the Select Members window, select  **Beth Burke**, select  **add**, and then select  **OK**.

18. Select  **Save**.

19. Close the Role Groups window.

20. On the Security &amp; Compliance page, select  **Permissions**.

21. On the  **Permissions** page, select **eDisovery Manager**. 

22. Next to eDiscovery Manager, select **Edit**, select  **Choose eDiscovery Manager**, select  **Add**, select **Christie Thomas**, select **Add**, and then select  **Done**.

23. Select  **Save**, then select **Close**.

24. On the Office 365 Security & Compliance page, under  **Search & investigation**, and select **Search for admin and user activity**.

25. On the Audit log search page, select **Turn on auditing**.

26. In the **Activities** drop-down, select **User administration activities**, and then select  **Search**.

  >**NOTE:** In production you would enter a search string, such as a user name, to find specific activities.

27. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 2: Configure archive mailboxes
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [https://protection.office.com](https://protection.office.com).

2. Sign in to the **Security &amp; Compliance Center** as  **Beth@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1. 

  >**NOTE:** Beth is a member of the Compliance Administrator role, so she can connect to the protection website.  

  > If you are signed in to Office 365 already, you may not need to sign in again.

3. Select  **Data governance**, and then select  **Archive**.

4. In the Archive window, select  **Christie Thomas**, and then Ctrl + select  **Catherine Richard**.

5. Under Bulk Edit, select  **Enable**. In the warning message, select  **Yes**, and then select  **Close**.

6. Select  **Refresh**, and then verify that Christie and Catherine have been enabled for an archive mailbox. 

7. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 3: Configure retention tags and policies
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [https://portal.office.com](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as **Beth@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. Select  **Admin**.

4. Expand **Admin centers**, and select **Exchange**.

5. Select **compliance management**, then select **retention tags**.

6. Select **New tag**, and then select  **applied automatically to entire mailbox (default)**.

7. Type  **Research User 1 year move to archive** as the name..

8. Select  **Move to Archive** as the **Retention action**.

9. Type  **365** as the **Retention period**.

10. Select  **Save**.

11. On the toolbar, select  **New tag**, and then select  **applied automatically to entire mailbox (default)**.

12. Type  **Default 2 years move to Deleted Items** as the name.

13. Select  **Delete and Allow Recovery** as the **Retention action**.

14. Type  **730** as the **Retention period**.

15. Select  **Save**.

16. On the toolbar, select  **New tag**, and then select  **applied automatically to a default folder**.

17. Type  **Purge Deleted Items 30 days** as the name.

18. Under Apply this tag to the following default folder, select  **Deleted Items**.

19. Select  **Permanently Delete** as the **Retention action**.

20. Type  **30** as the **Retention period**.

21. Select **Save**.

22. On the toolbar, select  **New tag**, and then select  **applied by users to items and folders (personal)**.

23. Type  **2 Year Delete** as the name.

24. Select  **Delete and Allow Recovery** as the **Retention action**.

25. Type  **730** as the **Retention period**.

26. Select  **Save**.

27. On the toolbar, select  **New tag**, and then select  **applied by users to items and folders (personal)**.

28. Type  **Never archive** as the name.

29. Select  **Move to Archive** as the **Retention action**.

30. Select  **Never** as the **Retention period**.

31. Select  **Save**.

32. Select **retention policies**.

33. On the toolbar, select  **New**.

34. On the  **new retention policy** page, type **Research MRM Policy** as the name.

35. Select  **Add** below **Retention tags**.

36. In the select retention tags window, Ctrl+select the following retention tags:
  -  **Research user 1 year move to archive**
  -  **Never delete**
  -  **2 year delete**

37. Select  **add**, and then select  **OK**. Select  **Save**.

38. In the left-hand menu, select **recipients**.

39. On the  **mailboxes** page, select **Christie Thomas**, and then select  **Edit**.

40. Select **mailbox features** and under **Retention policy** select **Research MRM Policy**, and then select  **Save**.

41. Close Microsoft Edge. 



#### Task 4: Configure content deletion and preservation policies
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [https://protection.office.com](https://protection.office.com).

2. Sign in to the **Security &amp; Compliance Center** as  **Beth@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. Expand **Data governance**, and then select  **Retention**. 

4. Select **Create**.

5. On the  **Name your policy** page, enter **Marketing Document Policy** in the **Name** textbox and select **Next**.

6. On the **Settings** page, under **Do you want to retain content?** select **No, just delete content that's older than**, type **7** and verify that **years** is selected. 

7. Next to **Delete the content based on**, verify that **when it was created** is selected, and select **Next**.

8. On the **Choose locations** page select **Let me choose specific locations**.

9. Turn off the option for **Exchange email**.

10. Next to the **SharePoint sites** option select **Choose sites**.

11. On the **Edit locations** page select **Choose sites**.

12. In the search box, enter **https://adatum*yyxxxxx*.sharepoint.com/sites/adatummarketing**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and select the **Search** icon.

13. Select the **Adatum Marketing** site and select **Choose** and then select **Done**. Select **Next**.

14. On the **Review your settings** page, verify all settings and note any warnings, and then select **Create this policy**. 

15. Verify that the **Status** is **On (Pending)**, and then select **Close**.

16. Select **Create**.

17. On the **Name your policy** page, enter **Retain contract details** in the **Name** textbox and select **Next**.

18. On the **Settings** page, under **Do you want to retain content?** select **Yes, I want to retain it**, type **7** and verify that **years** and **when it was created** are selected.

19. Select **Use advanced retention settings**.

20. Verify that **Detect content that contains specific words or phrases** is selected, and select **Next**.

21. In the **Keywords query editor** box, type **Contract** and select **Next**.

22. On the **Choose locations** page, select **Let me choose specific locations**.

23. On the **Choose locations** page, next to **Exchange email**, select **Choose recipients**.

24. On the **Edit locations** page, select **Choose recipients**.

25. Select **Francisco Chaves**, select **Choose**, and then select **Done**.

26. On the **Choose locations** page, next to the **SharePoint sites** option, select **Choose sites**.

27. On the **Edit locations** page, select **Choose sites**.

28. In the search box, enter **https://adatum*yyxxxxx*.sharepoint.com/sites/projectteam**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select the **Search** icon.

29. Select the **Project Team** site, select **Choose**, and then select **Done**.

30. On the **Choose locations** page, turn off **OneDrive accounts** and **Office 365 groups**, and then select **Next**.

31. On the **Review your settings** page, verify all settings and note any warnings, and then select **Create this policy**.

32. Verify that the **Status** is **On (Pending)**, and then select **Close**.

33. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 5: Configure data loss protection policies
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [https://protection.office.com](https://protection.office.com).

2. Sign in to the **Security &amp; Compliance Center** as  **Beth@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. In the navigation pane, select  **Data loss prevention** and then select **Policy**.

4. Select  **Create a policy**. 

5. On the  **Start with a template or create a custom policy** page, verify that **Custom** is selected, and then select **Next**.

6. On the  **Name your policy** page, type **Test DLP** in Name textbox, and then select **Next**. 

7. On the  **Choose locations** page, select **Protect content in Exchange email, Teams chats and channel messages and OneDrive and SharePoint documents** and select **Next**.

8. On the  **Customize the types of content you want to protect** page, select **Use advanced settings**, and select  **Next**. 

9. On the  **Customize the types of content you want to protect** page, select **New rule**.

10. On the  **Create a new rule** page, in the **Name** field, type **Scan for IP address**.

11. Under **Conditions**, select the **Add a condition** drop-down, select **Content contains**, and in the **Add** drop-down select **Sensitive info types**.

12. In **Sensitive info types** window, select **Add**. Scroll down in the list and select **IP Address**, select **Add**, and then select  **Done**.

13. Select the **Add a condition** drop-down, and select **Content is shared**.

14. Under **Content is shared**, select **with people outside my organization**. 

15. Under **Actions**, select  **Add an action**, and then select  **Restrict access or encrypt the content**. 

16. Under **User notifications**, enable the option to **Use notifications to inform your users and help educate them on the proper use of sensitive info.** 

17. Under **User overrides**, enable the option to **Let people who see the tip override the policy and share the content.** 

  > Note the additional options.

18. Under **Incident reports**, enable the option to  **Use email incident reports to notify you when a policy match occurs.** 

19. Select **Save**. 

20. On the  **Customize the types of content you want to protect** page, select  **Next**.

21. On the  **Do you want to turn on the policy or test things out first?** page, select **Yes, turn it on right away** and then select **Next**.

22. On the  **Review your settings** page, verify your settings, and then select **Create**.

23. On the **Test DLP** page, verify that the **Status** is **On**, and then select **Close**

24. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 6: Create compliance check content
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [https://portal.office.com](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in to the **Office 365 portal** as  **Beth@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. On the Office 365 home page, select  **Outlook**.

4. Select **New**, type the new Microsoft account email address that you created for this course in the **To** line.

5. Type **Server IP address** as the **Subject**, type  **My IP is 192.168.1.15** as the message body.

6. Wait for the policy tip appears at the top of message.

  > It may take up to several hours for the policy to be applied and for it to detect the message.  
  > You may want to leave and come back to this task later.

7. At the top of the message, select  **Show details**. 

8. Select  **Override**, and then select  **Send**.

9. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 7: Validate the configuration
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  [https://outlook.com](https://outlook.com). Sign in with the Microsoft account you created for this course.

2. Select the message from Beth Burke with the subject  **Server IP address**.

3. Close Microsoft Edge. 

4. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [https://portal.office.com](https://portal.office.com).

5. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as  **Christie@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

6. Select **Outlook**.

7. Select your time zone, and then select  **Save**.

8. In the left pane of Christie's mailbox, under Folders, select  **More**.

9. Verify that a folder named  **In-Place Archive - Christie Thomas** has been created.

10. Close Microsoft Edge. 

11. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [https://portal.office.com](https://portal.office.com).

12. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as  **Beth@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

13. Select **Outlook**.

14. Verify that you have received notification about message you sent to your personal account. This message should have  **Rule detected** words in the subject.


## Exercise 3: Using Compliance Manager

### Task 1: Launch and review Compliance Manager

1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [https://servicetrust.microsoft.com](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com).

2. Sign in **Service Trust Portal** as  **Beth@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. Select **LAUNCH COMPLIANCE MANAGER**.

4. Review the **Microsoft Non-Disclosure Agreement for Compliance Materials** and select **Agree**.

5. Select **Take the Tour**, review each page of the Compliance Manager Tour, selecting **Next**, until you reach the last page.

6. Select **Done** and review the Assessments dashboard.


### Task 2: Review GDPR compliance assessments and action items

1. On the Compliance Manager dashboard, under **Assessments** select **Office 365 - GDPR**.

2. Expand **Microsoft Managed Controls**, then expand and review each item.

3. Under **Customer Managed Controls**, expand **PII sharing, transfer, and disclosure**.

4. Under **Assign User**, select **Assign**.

5. In the **Assign To** box type **Beth** and select **Beth Burke**.

6. In the **Select Priority** drop-down select **High**, and select **Assign**. 

7. Scroll to the top of the page and select **Back To Dashboard**.


### Task 3: Review HIPAA compliance assessments and action items

1. On the Compliance Manager dashboard, select **Add Assessment**.

2. In the **Enter new group** box, enter **HIPAA group** and select **Next**.

3. Set **Would you like to copy the data from the existing group** to **No** and select **Next**.

4. In the **Select a product** drop-down select **Office 365**.

5. In the **Select a certification** drop-down select **HIPAA** and select **Add to Dashboard**.

6. On the dashboard, select **Office 365 - HIPAA**.

7. Expand **Microsoft Managed Controls** and review the entries.

8. Under **Customer Managed Controls**, expand **Access Authorization (Addressable)**.

9. Under **Assigned User**, select **Assign**.

10. In the **Assign To** box type **Beth** and select **Beth Burke**.

11. In the **Select Priority** drop-down, select **High**, and select **Assign**.

12. Scroll to the top of the page and select **Export to Excel**.

13. In the notification box, select **Save**, then select **Open**.

  > Select **Yes** if you receive a Microsoft Excel warning dialog.

14. Close Excel and Edge. 

15. Leave the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented the Office 365 compliance features.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
