# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Managing Office 365 users and groups

# Lab A: Managing Office 365 users and passwords
  
## Exercise 1: Managing Office 365 users and licenses by using the Office 365 admin center
  
#### Task 1: Create Office 365 users
  
1. On LON-CL1, verify that you signed in as Adatum\\Beth.

2. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

3. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

4. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

5. On the menu on the left side, point to  **Users**, and then select  **Active users**.

6. Select **Add a user**.

7. On the **New User** page, in the **First name** text box, type **Lindsey**.

8. In the **Last name** text box, type **Gates**.

9. Notice the **Display name** text box is automatically filled in as **Lindsey Gates**.

10. In the **Username** text box, type **Lindsey**.

11. Verify that **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** is listed in the text box after the @ character.

12. Expand **Product licenses**.  Next to **Office 365 Enterprise E5** select **Off**.  Next to **Create user without product license** select **On**.  Then select **Add**.

13. On the  **User was added** page, note the temporary password here: ........................

14. Select  **Send email and close**.

15. Repeat steps 6 to 14 to create the following users (for the  **Username**, use the  **Firstname**):
    - Christie Thomas
    - Amy Santiago
    - Sallie McIntosh
    - Francisco Chaves

16. Note their temporary passwords here:
    - Christie Thomas _____________
    - Amy Santiago _______________
    - Sallie McIntosh ______________
    - Francisco Chaves ____________


#### Task 2: Edit Office 365 users
  
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the  **Active users** list, select the **Francisco Chaves** user object.

2. On the  **Contact information** line, select  **Edit**.

3. On the  **Edit contact information** page, expand **Contact information**, and in the  **Department** text box, type **Accounts**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close**.

4. Near the top of the **Francisco Chaves** page, select **Block sign-in**.

5. On the **Edit sign-in status** page, select **Block the user from signing in**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close**.

6. Close the Francisco Chaves page.

7. In the  **Active users** list, under **Display name**, select  **Francisco Chaves**.

8. Verify that **Accounts** is displayed under Francisco's email near the top of the **Francisco Chaves** page.

9. Verify that  **Sign-in status** is set to **Sign-in blocked**, and then close the Francisco Chaves page.

10. In the  **Active users** list, select the **Lindsey Gates** user object.

12. On the **Lindsey Gates** page, select the **Delete user** button near the top.

13. On the  **Delete user** page, select **Delete user**, select  **Confirm changes**, and then select **Close**.

14. In the left navigation pane, point to  **Users**, and select  **Deleted users**.

15. Verify that  **Lindsey Gates** is in this list.

16. In the  **Deleted users** list, select **Lindsey Gates**. 

17. On the toolbar, select  **Restore**, and then on the  **Restore** page, select **Restore**.

18. Note the new temporary password, and then select  **Send email and close**.

19. On the left navigation pane, point to  **Users**, and select  **Active users**.

20. Verify that  **Lindsey Gates** is in this list.

21. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 3: Verifying user settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

2. Sign in as  **Lindsey@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the temporary password that you noted in the previous task.

3. When you are prompted to change your password, on the  **Update your password** page, in the **Current password** text box, type Lindsey's temporary password.

4. In the  **New password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **Update password and sign in**.

5. If prompted, enter your new password again, and then select  **Sign in**.

6. Verify that you can access the Office 365 portal home page.

7. Close Microsoft Edge.

8. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

9. Sign in as  **Francisco@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the temporary password that you noted in the previous task.

10. Verify that you cannot sign in and that the message states that your account has been locked.

11. Close Microsoft Edge.

12. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

13. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

14. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

15. On the left menu, point to  **Users**, and then select  **Active users**.

16. In the  **Active users** list, select **Francisco Chaves**.

17. Near the top of the **Francisco Chaves** page, select the **Unblock sign-in** button.

18. On the  **Edit sign-in status** page, select **Allow the user to sign in**, select  **Save**, and then select **Close**.

19. On the Product licenses line, select **Edit**.

20. Enable the **Office 365 Enterprise E5** option, select **Save**, and then select **Close**.

21. Close Microsoft Edge.

22. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

23. Sign in as  **Francisco@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the temporary password that you noted in the previous task.

24. On the  **Update your password** page, in the **Current password** text box, type the temporary password.

25. In the  **New password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **Update password and sign in**.

26. On the Sign in again page, type  the password you created in Module 1 as the password and select **Sign in**.

27. Verify that you can access the Office 365 portal.

28. Close Microsoft Edge.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and managed user accounts and licenses according to business needs.




## Exercise 2: Managing Office 365 password policies
  
#### Task 1: Configure the Office 365 password policy
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

2. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** with the password you created in Module 1.

3. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

4. On the left side menu, point to  **Settings**, and then select  **Security &amp; privacy**.

5. In the  **Password policy** area, select **Edit**.

6. On the **Password policy** page, next to **Set user passwords to never expire**, select **Off**.

7. In the **Days before passwords expire** text box, type **14**.

  >  **Note:** This setting does not correspond with a real-world scenario. Use it as a sample scenario to verify the policy applied in the next exercise task.

8. In the  **Days before a user is notified about expiration** box, leave the default value of **14**, and then select  **Save**.

9. Verify that the "Password policy has been updated" message appears at the top of the page and then select  **Close**.

10. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 2: Validate the password policy
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Lindsey@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. On the upper-right side of the window, verify that the notification appears with the following information: "Time to change your password. Your password will expire in 13 days."

  >  **Note:** It might take a few minutes before the password change notification appears. You can also verify the password policy later.

  >  **Note:** You have now verified that your password policy is applied. In a real-world scenario, after you verify that the password policy is applied, you would need to increase the number of days before the password expires, according to your organizational policy.

4. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 3: Enable multi-factor authentication
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. In the Microsoft Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

4. On the  **Home** page, on the left menu, point to **Settings**, and then select  **Services &amp; add-ins**.

5. On the  **Services &amp; add-ins** page, select **Azure multi-factor authentication**.

6. On the  **Azure multi-factor authentication** page, select **Manage multi-factor authentication**.

7. On the  **multi-factor authentication** page, select the **Amy Santiago** check box, and then select **Enable**.

8. In the  **About enabling multi-factor auth** pop-up, select **enable multi-factor auth**, and then select  **Close**.

9. On the  **multi-factor authentication** page, select **service settings**.

10. Under  **verification options**, verify the  **Call to phone** check box is not selected, select **save**, and then select  **Close**.

11. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 4: Verify multi-factor authentication
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Amy@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the temporary password you created in Module 1.

3. On the **More information required** dialog, select **Next**.

4. On the **Additional secuirty verification** page, under **Step 1: How should we contact you?**, verify that **Authentication phone** is selected.

5. In the **Select your country or region** drop-down select your country or region.

6. Next to the **Select your country or region** drop-down, in the text box enter your cell phone number and select **Next**.

7. Under **When you receive the verfication code, enter it here**, enter the verification code that you receive on your phone, and select **Verify**.

8. Select **Done**.

9. In the **Update your password** dialog, in the **Current password** box, enter your temporary password.

10. In the **New password** and the **Confirm password** boxes, enter the password you created in Module 1, and select **Sign in**.

11. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 5: To prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab in this module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured and validated an Office 365 password policy.




# Lab B: Managing Office 365 groups and administration
  
## Exercise 1: Managing Office 365 groups
  
#### Task 1: Creating Office 365 security groups
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

2. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where  *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. In the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin**.

4. On the left side menu, expand **Groups**, select  **Groups**, and then select  **Add a group**.

5. On the  **New Group** page, in the **Type** drop-down box, select **Security**, and in the  **Name** text box, type **Sales**.

6. In the  **Description** text box, type **Sales department users**, select  **Add**, and then select  **Close**.

7. Select the  **Sales** group, and then on the **Sales** page, next to **Members**, select  **Edit**. 

8. Select  **Add members**, select  **Lindsey Gates**, select  **Christie Thomas**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** three times.

9. Select  **Add a group**.

10. On the  **New Group** page, in the **Type** drop-down box, select **Security**, and then in the  **Name** text box, type **Accounts**.

11. In the  **Description** text box, type **Accounts department users**, select  **Add**, and then select  **Close**.

12. Select the  **Accounts** group, and then on the **Accounts** page, next to **Members**, select  **Edit**.

13. Select  **Add members**, select  **Francisco Chaves**, select  **Sallie McIntosh**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** three times.


#### Task 2: Manage security groups
  
1. In the Office 365 admin center, verify that you can see the following groups:
    - Accounts
    - Sales

2. In the  **Groups** list, select the **Sales** group, and then on the **Sales** page, next to **Members**, select  **Edit**.

3. Select  **Add members**, select  **Amy Santiago**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** three times.

4. Open  **Sales** details page, and ensure that Amy Santiago is now present under the **Members** list.

5. Select  **Delete group**.

6. On the  **Delete group** page, select **Delete**, and then select  **Close**.

7. On the left side menu, expand **Users**, and then select  **Active users**.

8. Confirm that Amy Santiago's account still exists in the list of users.

9. Close Microsoft Edge.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and managed security groups.




## Exercise 2: Managing Office 365 users and groups by using Windows PowerShell
  
#### Task 1: Installing Microsoft Azure Active Directory module for Windows PowerShell
  
1. On LON-CL1, click **Start** and enter **Powershell**.

2. Right-click **Windows PowerShell** and select **Run as administrator**.

3. In the **User Account Control** dialog, in the **User name** box, enter **administrator**.

4. In the **Password** box, enter **Pa55w.rd** and select **Yes**.

5. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** console, enter **install-module msonline** and press **Enter**.

6. When prompted **Do you want PowerShellGet to install import the NuGet provider now?**, enter **Yes** and press **Enter**.

7. When prompted **Are you sure you want to install the modules from 'PSGallery'?**, enter **Yes** and press **Enter**. 

8. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** console, enter **install-module azuread** and press **Enter**.

9. When prompted **Are you sure you want to install the modules from 'PSGallery'?**, enter **Yes** and press **Enter**. 


#### Task 2: Create new users and assign licenses by using Windows PowerShell
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** console, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Connect-MsolService
  ```

2. In the  **Enter Credentials** dialog box, sign in as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where  *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter;  *hostdomain* is your unique domain name:

  ```
  New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Catherine Richard" -FirstName "Catherine" -LastName "Richard" -Password '<the password you created in Module 1>' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "CH"
  ```

4. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter;  *hostdomain* is your unique domain name:

  ```
   New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName tameka@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Tameka Reed" -FirstName "Tameka" -LastName "Reed" -Password '<the password you created in Module 1>' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "CH"
  ```

5. To determine which users are unlicensed, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -UnlicensedUsersOnly
  ```

6. To view the available licenses, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolAccountSku
  ```

7. To license Catherine Richard, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter; replace *Adatumyyxxxxx* in the -AddLicenses attribute with the onmicrosoft.com domain name provided by the hosting provider:

  ```
  Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
  ```

8. To license Tameka Reed, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter; replace Adatumyyxxxxx in the -AddLicenses attribute with the onmicrosoft.com domain name provided by the hosting provider:

  ```
  Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Tameka@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
  ```

9. To prevent a user from signing in, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter;  *hostdomain* is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $true
  ```

10. To delete a user, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter;  *hostdomain* is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Remove-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -Force
  ```

11. To view the  **Deleted users** list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
  ```

12. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the list of deleted users. Note that it specifies that she is still licensed.

13. To restore a deleted user, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter;  *hostdomain* is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Restore-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  ```

14. To view the deleted users list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
  ```

15. Verify that Catherine Richard is no longer in the list of deleted users.

16. To view the active users list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser
  ```

17. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the active users list.

18. To allow a user to sign in, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter;  *hostdomain* is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $false
  ```


#### Task 3: Bulk-import of users by using Windows PowerShell
  
1. On LON-CL1, on the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**.

2. Navigate to  **C:\\labfiles**, right-click  **O365users.csv**, select **Open with**, and then select  **Notepad**.

3. In Notepad, select  **Edit**, and then select  **Replace**.

4. In the  **Find what** text box, type **yourdomain.hostdomain.com**.

5. In the  **Replace with** text box, type your unique public domain name value, and then select **Replace All**. 

6. In the  **Find what** text box, type **Adatumyyxxxx:ENTERPRISEPACK**.

7. In the  **Replace with** text box, type your unique *Adatumyyxxxx* value followed by **:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM**, and then select  **Replace All**.
 
  >  **Note:** Adatumyyxxxx in this step must be the onmicrosoft.com domain name.

8. Close O365users.csv, and then in the  **Notepad** message box, select **Save**.

9. To bulk import several users from a comma-separated value (CSV) file, copy and paste this code into the Administrator: Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell window on LON-CL1, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Import-Csv -Path C:\labfiles\O365Users.csv | ForEach-Object { New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName $_."UPN" -AlternateEmailAddresses $_."AltEmail" -FirstName $_."FirstName" -LastName $_."LastName" -DisplayName $_."DisplayName" -BlockCredential $False -ForceChangePassword $False -LicenseAssignment $_."LicenseAssignment" -Password $_."Password" -PasswordNeverExpires $True -Title $_."Title" -Department $_."Department" -Office $_."Office" -PhoneNumber $_."PhoneNumber" -MobilePhone $_."MobilePhone" -Fax $_."Fax" -StreetAddress $_."StreetAddress" -City $_."City" -State $_."State" -PostalCode $_."PostalCode" -Country $_."Country" -UsageLocation $_."UsageLocation" }
  ```

10. To view the  **Active users** list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser
  ```

11. Switch back to Microsoft Edge, browse to **https://portal.office.com**, sign in as Beth, and select  **Admin**.

12. On the Home page, select  **Users**, then select **Active users**.

13. Review the active users that you just imported.

14. On the **Admin centers** menu, select  **Exchange**.

15. Under **recipients**, select  **mailboxes** and review the mailboxes and associated email addresses that were created.


#### Task 4: Configure groups and group membership by using Windows PowerShell
  
1. Switch to Windows Powershell.

2. To create a Marketing group, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  New-MsolGroup -DisplayName "Marketing" -Description "Marketing department users"
  ```

3. To configure a variable for the group, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $MktGrp = Get-MsolGroup | Where-Object {$_.DisplayName -eq "Marketing"}
  ```

4. To configure a variable for the first user account, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $Catherine = Get-MsolUser | Where-Object {$_.DisplayName -eq "Catherine Richard"}
  ```

5. To configure a variable for the second user account, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $Tameka = Get-MsolUser | Where-Object {$_.DisplayName -eq "Tameka Reed"}
  ```

6. To add Catherine Richard to the Marketing group, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Add-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $MktGrp.ObjectId -GroupMemberType "User" -GroupMemberObjectId $Catherine.ObjectId
  ```

7. To add Tameka Reed to the Marketing group, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Add-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $MktGrp.ObjectId -GroupMemberType "User" -GroupMemberObjectId $Tameka.ObjectId
  ```

8. To verify the members of the Marketing group, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $MktGrp.ObjectId
  ```


#### Task 5: Configure user passwords by using Windows PowerShell
  
1. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter; *hostdomain* is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Set-MsolPasswordPolicy -DomainName "Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com" -ValidityPeriod "90" -NotificationDays "14"
  ```

2. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter;  *hostdomain* is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Set-MsolUserPassword -UserPrincipalName "Tameka@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com" -NewPassword '<Create a new password>'
  ```

  > **Note** Write down the new password here:................

3. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser | Set-MsolUser -PasswordNeverExpires $false 
  ```

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created new users, assigned licenses, modified existing users, and configured groups and user passwords by using the Windows PowerShell command-line interface.




## Exercise 3: Configuring service administrators
  
#### Task 1: Assign service administrators in the Office 365 admin center
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where  *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

3. In the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin**.

4. On the left-hand side, expand  **Users**, select  **Active users**, and then select  **Francisco Chaves**.

5. On the  **Francisco Chaves** page, in the Roles section, select **Edit.**

6. Under Edit user roles, select  **Customized administrator**, select  **Billing administrator** from the list, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

7. In the list of active users, select  **Tameka Reed**.

8. On the  **Tameka Reed** page, in the Roles section, select **Edit**.

9. Under Edit user roles, select  **Customized administrator**, and then select  **Helpdesk administrator** from the list.

10. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

11. In the list view, select  **Christie Thomas**.

12. On the  **Christie Thomas** page, in the Roles section, select **Edit**.

13. Under Edit user roles, select  **Customized administrator**, and then select  **User management administrator** from the list.

14. Above the  **Alternative email address** text box, select **Edit**, in the text box type **user@alt.none**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

15. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 2: Manage service administration with Windows PowerShell
  
1. In the Windows PowerShell window, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "Service Support Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Sallie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com"
  ```

2. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "Company Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Amy@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com"
  ```

3. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Service Support Administrator"
  ```

4. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
  ```

5. Verify that Sallie McIntosh is in the list of users who have the Service Support Administrator role.

6. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Billing Administrator"
  ```

7. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
  ```

8. Verify that Francisco Chaves is in the list of users who have the billing administrator role.

9. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Company Administrator"
  ```

10. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
  ```

11. Verify that Amy Santiago is in the list of users who have the Company Administrator role. You should also see Beth Burke on the list.

12. Close the Windows PowerShell window.


#### Task 3: Verify service administration
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Tameka@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the new password you created earlier.

3. On the  **Update your password** page, in the **Current** **password** text box, type the password you created earlier.

4. In the  **New password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type a new password, and then select  **Sign in**.

  > **Note** Write the password here:...............

5. On the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

6. If prompted, sign in again as  **Tameka@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** using the password you just created.

7. On the Home page, select  **Active users**.

8. Select  **Jessica Jennings**. Note that you cannot perform any administrative tasks.

9. Select  **Reset password**.

10. On the  **Reset password** page, select **Reset**.

11. Write down the temporary password here for future reference, and then select  **Send email and close**: ______________________________

12. Close and reopen Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

13. Sign in as  **Christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where  *hostdomain* is your unique domain name, with the temporary password that you recorded in Lab A, Exercise 1.

14. Change Christie's password to  the password you created in Module 1.

15. In the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

16. If prompted, sign in again as  **Christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** using the password you created in Module 1.

17. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the Home page, select  **Active users**, and then select  **Jessica Jennings**.

18. On the  **Jessica Jennings** page, in the **Contact information** section, select **Edit**.

19. On the  **Edit contact information** page, expand **Contact** information.

20. In the  **Office Phone** text box, type **555-1234**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close**.

21. In the  **Sign-in status** section, select **Edit**, select  **Block the user from signing in**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

22. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select  **Add a user**.

23. In the  **First name** text box, type **Chris**.

24. In the  **Last name** text box, type **Breland**.

25. In the  **User name** text box, type **Chris**, select  in Product licenses section, enable **Office 365 E5**, and then select  **Add**. 

26. In the  **Active users** list, select **Chris Breland**.

27. On  **Chris Breland** page, select the **Delete user**.

28. On the  **Delete user** page, select **Delete**, and then select **Close**.

29. Close Microsoft Edge.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have assigned service administrators in the Office 365 admin center, managed service administration with Windows PowerShell, and verified service administration.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  