# Lab Answer Key:  Module 5: Planning and deploying Office 365 ProPlus
# Lab: Managing Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
## Exercise 1: Preparing an Office 365 ProPlus managed installation
  
#### Task 1: Download the Office 365 deployment tool
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**.

2. In  **File Explorer**, select  **Local Disk (C:)** in the left navigation pane

3. In  **File Explorer**, select the  **Home** tab, and then select **New Folder**.

4. Type  **Office16**, and then press Enter.

5. In  **File Explorer**, right-click  **Office16**, select  **Share with**, and then select  **Specific people**.

6. In the  **File Sharing** dialog box, select the drop-down list box, select **Everyone** from the list, select **Add**, and then select  **Share**.

7. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, enter the following values and select **Yes**:
    - User name: **Administrator**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd** 

8. In the  **File Sharing** dialog box, select **Done**. 

9. From the taskbar, open the  **Microsoft Edge** browser.

10. In the address bar, type  **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.

11. Sign in as  **Beth@AdatumYYXXXXX.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1 and select **Admin**.

12. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, in the left panel, select  **Settings**, select  **Services & Add-ins**, then select **Office software download settings**.

13. On the **Office software download settings** page scroll down to **How often do you want users to get feature updates for Office 2016 apps?** 

    > Note that you can choose for users to receive updates as often as they are made available (monthly) or the default of every six months.

14. Scroll up and select **Manually deploy user software**.

15. Under the  **Manually deploy user software** area, select **Learn how to download and deploy software**.

16. On the **Manage user software in Office 365** page, scroll down to the **Manually download and install the Office apps by using the Office 2016 Deployment Tool** section and select the **Microsoft Download Center** link to open the Office 2016 Deployment Tool download page.

17. On the download page, expand  **Details**, **System Requirements**, and  **Install Instructions**.

18. Read and familiarize yourself with each section. You can mark this page as a favorite to refer to later.

19. Select **Download** and in the information bar at the bottom of the browser, select **Save**.

20. Once the download is completed, select  **Run**.

21. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, enter the following values and select **Yes**:
    - User name: **Administrator**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd** 

22. Accept the license agreement and select  **Continue**. 

23. In the **Browse For Folder** dialog box, expand **This PC**, expand **Local Disk (C:)**, and select the **Office16** folder.

24. Select  **OK**. You should see a notice that the files were extracted successfully. Select  **OK**, and then close the **Download Center** tab.

25. Navigate to the  **Office16** folder with File Explorer. You should see four files in the folder:

  - **configuration-Office365-x64.xml** - An example Office 365 client configuration file. The sample allows you to download and install the 64 bit version of the Office 365 ProPlus apps and Visio Pro for Office 365 directly from the Office CDN using the Monthly Channel.
  - **configuration-Office365-x86.xml** - An example Office 365 client configuration file. The sample allows you to download and install the 32 bit version of the Office 365 ProPlus apps and Visio Pro for Office 365 directly from the Office CDN using the Monthly Channel.
  - **configuration-Office2019Enterprise.xml** - An example Office 2019 enterprise client configuration file for Office 2019 enterprise volume licensed products, inlcuding Office 2019 Professional Plus, Visio 2019, and Project 2019. The sample allows you to download and install Office 2019 Professional Plus, Visio 2019 Professional, and Project 2019 Professional directly from the Office CDN.



#### Task 2: Modify an Office 365 ProPlus installation
  
1. In this step, you will back up the Office 16  **configuration-Office365-x86.xml** file and then open it so that you can edit it in the next step. To do this, perform the following steps:

    a. (If required), in  **File Explorer**, open the  **C:\\Office16** folder. 

    b. Right-click **configuration-Office365-x86.xml**, and select  **Copy**. Right-click again in the white space below the file list and select  **Paste**. 

    c. Right-click the  **configuration-Office365-x86.xml** file, select **Rename**, and change the name to:  **Adatumconfiguration-Office365-x86.xml**. 

    d. Right-click the **Adatumconfiguration-Office365-x86.xml** file and select **Edit**.

2. In  **Notepad**, edit the first **Add** line after **&lt;Configuration&gt;** to read: 

    ```
    <Add SourcePath="\\LON-CL1\\Office16\" OfficeClientEdition="32" Channel="Targeted">
    ```

3. In  **Notepad**, edit the **&lt;!--  &lt;Updates Enabled="TRUE" Channel="Monthly" /&gt;  --&gt;** line (by removing the **&lt;!--** and **--&gt;** comment tags) to read:

    ```
    <Updates Enabled="TRUE" Channel="Targeted" />
    ```

4. In  **Notepad**, edit the **&lt;!--  &lt;Display Level="None" AcceptEULA="TRUE" /&gt;  --&gt;** line (by removing the **&lt;!--** and **--&gt;** comment tags) to read:

    ```
    <Display Level="None" AcceptEULA="TRUE" />
    ```

5. Comment out Microsoft Visio with the  **&lt;!--** and **--&gt;** codes to make the download quicker, by replacing this code:

    ```
    </Product>
    <Product ID="VisioProRetail">
    <Language ID="en-us" />
    </Product>
    ```

    with this code:

    ```
    </Product>
    <!--
    <Product ID="VisioProRetail">
    <Language ID="en-us" />
    </Product>
    -->
    ```

6. In **Notepad**, select **File**, then select **Save**.

7. Right-click **Start** and select **Command prompt**.

8. At the command prompts, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    cd c:\Office16
    ```

9. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Setup /?
    ```

10. Note the Office Deployment Tool command-line options. 

11. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    setup.exe /download \\LON-CL1\Office16\Adatumconfiguration-Office365-x86.xml
    ```

12. If the **User Account Control** window appear, select **Yes**.

13. Switch to File Explorer, and verify that the download has started. (A new folder named "**Office**" should be present in the **C:\\Office16** folder.) The download will take several minutes to complete. You can continue with the next task and leave the download in the background.


>  **Result**: You will have downloaded a copy of the Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus install for managed deployment to a shared folder. You will also download and install the Office Deployment Tool on the same machine.


## Exercise 2: Managing user-driven Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
#### Task 1: Managing user rights to install Office 365 ProPlus
  
1. In the Office 365 admin center, expand **Users**, and then select **Active Users**.

2. Select  **Abbi Skinner**, and then next to  **Product licenses**, select  **Edit**.

3. Under  **Location**, select  **United Kingdom**, and then enable  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**.

4. Set the  **Office 365 ProPlus** option to **Off**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

5. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, under  **Active users**, select  **Ada Russell**.

6. Beside  **Product licenses**, select  **Edit**.

7. Under  **Location**, select  **United Kingdom**, and then enable  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**.

8. Verify that Ada has permission to use all features.

9. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

10. Repeat steps 5 through 9 for  **Cai Chu**. 

11. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, select  **Home** icon.

12. Under **Office software**, select  **Software download settings**.

13. In the  **Software for PC and mobile devices** section, under **2016 desktop and mobile apps**, turn off all options. 

14. Select  **Save**, and then  **Close**.

15. On the  **Admin** page, select **Beth Burke**'s profile photo icon in the top right of the screen, and then select  **Sign Out**.

16. On the **Pick an account** page, select **Use another account**, sign in as  **abbi@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, using the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

17. If it appears, close the **First run experience** dialog.

18. On the  **Default Landing** page, select the small Gear icon in the top- right corner, and then select the **Office 365** option.

19. On the  **Office 365 settings** page, select **Software.**

    >  **Note:** Because this user is not licensed for Office 365 ProPlus, Office 2016 is not available for download.

20. Close and reopen  **Microsoft Edge** and connect to **https://portal.office.com**.

21. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Name** box, type **Ada@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number.

22. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select **Sign in**.

23. On the default landing page, select the small Gear icon in the top-right corner, and then select  **Office 365**.

24. On the **Settings** page, select **Software.**

    >  **Note:** This user has a license, but Skype for Business 2016 and Office 2016 are not available for download because Beth disabled Office download.

25. Open the **App launcher** and select **Admin**.

26. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, select  **Home**.

27. Select  **Software download settings**.

28. Next to the 2016 version, set the value to  **On**. Verify that Office and Skype for Business are both set to on, and select  **Save**. 

29. Select  **Close**. 

30. In  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **User Software** page, select **Beth Burke**'s profile photo icon, and then select  **Sign out**.

    >  **Note:** Instead of signing out your admin user every time, you can select the Microsoft Edge browser ellipse menu (...) at the top right of the browser and open a New InPrivate window. This will allow you to have two sessions at a time open

31. Switch to  **LON-CL3**. Verify that you are signed in as Beth.

32. Open  **Microsoft Edge**.

33. In the  **address bar**, type  **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.

34. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Name** box, type **beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number with the password you chose in Module 1.

35. On the  **Office 365** home page page, select the small Gear icon in the top-right corner, and then select **Office 365**.

36. On the  **Settings** page, select **Software**.

    >  **Note:** This user has a license, and Office 2016 is now available for download.

37. Verify that  **Office** and **Skype for Business** desktop software are available to install.

38. Do not install, but notice that this user can now install the 32-bit version of Office 365 ProPlus and select which language they want to install. Users must select  **Advanced** to turn on the 64-bit version option.

39. Note also that  **Phone and tablet** apps are available from the left menu.

40. Leave this page open and continue to the next lab to perform the user-driven installation.


#### Task 2: Installing Office 365 ProPlus from the Office 365 portal
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, if needed, open  **Microsoft Edge** and sign into **Office 365** portal at **portal.office.com**, with the username  **beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, select  **Install Office apps** and then select **Other install options**.

2. In the Language section, select the language to install from the drop-down menu.

3. Select  **Install**.

4. In the  **Microsoft Edge** notification bar, select **Save**, and then select  **Run**.

5. If the  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, type **Adatum\\Administrator** in the user name box, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Yes**.

6. On the taskbar, select the  **Office** icon, and note the status of the download.

    >  **Note:** It will take several minutes to complete, but applications are now available.

7. Select  **Close** when the wizard finishes.

8. Go to the  **Start** screen.

9. On the  **Start** screen, select **Word 2016**. On the first things first window select  **Accept**.

10. In the top-right corner, if no one is signed in, sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1, by clicking the link  **Sign in to get most out of office**.

11. In the **First things first** dialog, select **Accept**.

12. Once signed in, your subscription license is activated. At the top right, under  **Beth Burke**, select  **Switch account**.

13. Select  **Switch account**, select  **Sign out**, and select **Sign out** again.

14. Select  **Yes** in the **Remove Account** dialog box.

15. At the top right, select  **Sign in to get the most out of Office**.

16. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **E-mail address** box, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select  **Next**.

17. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Password** box, type the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **Sign in**.

18. Select  **Blank document**.

19. Type some text.

20. Select  **File**, then select  **Save**.

21. Select  **Sites - A. Datum** and select **A. Datum** in the right pane.

22. Double-click the  **Documents** folder and then save the file with the name **Meeting Agenda**. 

23. Select  **Save**. You might see a  **streaming features** message.

24. Close  **Word**. 

25. Switch back to  **Beth Burke**'s Office 365 session in Microsoft Edge.

26. In the top-right corner, select the  **Settings** icon, and then select **Office 365**.

27. On the  **Office 365 settings** page, select **Software**.

28. Note that you now have a new section at the top of the page where you can manage Office 365 installs.

29. Select  **Tools &amp; Add-ins.**


#### Task 3: Managing office licenses

1. On the  **Office 365** home page, select **Admin**. 

2. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, select  **Users**, and then select  **Beth Burke**.

3. In the right pane, under  **Product licenses**, select  **Edit**. 

4. Under  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**, set the  **Office 365 ProPlus** option to **Off** to remove the license from Beth's account, select **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

5. In  **Microsoft Edge**, at the top right, select the Profile photo icon for  **Beth Burke**, and then select  **Sign out**.

6. On the  **Sign in** page, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number.

7. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Sign in**.

8. In the top-right corner, select the  **Settings** icon, and then select **Office 365**.

9. On the  **Settings** page, select **Software**.

10. Note that the Office installation is no longer listed, as this user no longer has an active license (although software is available).

  >  **Note:** The Office 365 ProPlus applications will still be available to Beth on any machine on which she already installed them, but within 30 days, they will drop into low-functionality mode. This means she will only be able to read and print documents.


#### Task 4: Reactivating Office 365 ProPlus
  
1. On the  **Office 365** home page, select the **Admin** tile.

2. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, select  **Users**, and then select  **Beth Burke**.

3. In the right pane, under  **Product licenses**, select  **Edit**. 

4. Under  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**, set the  **Office 365 ProPlus** option to **On**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

5. Close  **Microsoft Edge**.

>  **Result**: When completed, you should be able to activate Office 365 ProPlus for self-service installations. You should also be able to set licensing options correctly for end users so that deployment and installation is possible.


## Exercise 3: Managing centralized Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
#### Task 1: Configure a Group Policy Object (GPO) to distribute the custom installation
  
1. Switch to  **LON-DC1** and connect as **Adatum\\Administrator**, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools**, and then select  **Active Directory Users and Computers**, if it is not already open.

3. In the console tree, right-click  **Adatum.com**, point to  **New**, and then select  **Organizational Unit**.

4. Type  **Adatum_Computers**, and then select  **OK**. 

5. In the console tree, under  **Adatum.com**, select  **Computers**.

6. Right-click  **LON-CL4**, select  **Move**, select  **Adatum_Computers**, and then select  **OK**. 

7. In  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools**, and then select  **Group Policy Management**.

8. In the  **Group Policy Management** window, expand **Forest: Adatum.com**, expand  **Domains**, expand  **Adatum.com**, and then select  **Adatum_Computers**.

9. Right-click  **Adatum_Computers**, and then select  **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here**.

10. In the  **New GPO** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type **DeployO365**, and then select  **OK**. 

11. In  **Group Policy Management**, select  **Adatum_Computers**, and in the right pane, right-click  **DeployO365**, and then select  **Edit**. If you see a Group Policy Management Console window, select  **OK**.

12. In  **Group Policy Management Editor**, expand  **Computer Configuration**,  **Policies**,  **Windows Settings**, and then double-click  **Scripts (Startup/Shutdown).**

13. Double-click  **Startup**, and then select  **Show Files**.

14. In  **File Explorer**, select  **Home**, select  **New item**, select  **Text Document**, and then press Enter to accept the default name.

15. Double-click  **New Text Document.txt**.

16. In  **Notepad**, add the following line:

    ```
    \\LON-CL1\Office16\setup.exe /configure \\LON-CL1\Office16\Adatumconfiguration-Office365-x86.xml
    ```

17. In **Notepad**, select **File**, **Save As** and change the **File name:** to:  **DeployO365.cmd**, change the **Save as type:** to **All Files**, and then select **Save**.

    >  **Note:** Be sure the **DeployO365.cmd** file has the **.cmd** file extension, not **.cmd.txt**!
  
18. Close  **Notepad**.

19. Delete  **New Text Document.txt**.

20. Switch back to the  **Group Policy Management Editor**,  **Startup Properties** dialog box.

21. Select  **Add**.

22. In the  **Add a Script** dialog box, select **Browse**.

23. In the  **Browse** dialog box, select **DeployO365.cmd**, and then select  **Open**.

24. In the  **Add a Script** dialog box, select **OK**.

25. In the  **Startup Properties** dialog box, select **OK**.

26. Close  **Group Policy Management Editor**.

  > Note that you could also deploy this script by using **Microsoft Intune**, **Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager**, or other electronic software distribution.



#### Task 2: Verifying the installation
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CL4**, and if necessary, and sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth**, with the password,  **Pa55w.rd**. 

2. Right-click the **Start** button, and select **Command Prompt (Admin)**.

3. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, type **Administrator** as the user name and **Pa55w.rd** as the password, and select **Yes**.

4. Type  **gpupdate /force** and press Enter.

5. Wait for the Group Policy to update for both the computer and user and then close the command prompt.

6. Restart the computer.

    >  **Note:** If any updates have downloaded, select **Update**, and then restart.

7. Wait five minutes after  **LON-CL4** has restarted before continuing. This is to allow the **Group Policy** settings to take effect on **LON-CL4**.

8. Sign in as  **ADATUM\\Beth** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. You may have to wait for Office to finish installing.

9. Navigate to the  **Start** screen, and note that Office 2016 is installed. 

    > NOTE: You might have to wait up to 15 minutes before you see any available Office applications.

10. Select  **Word 2016**. If you do not see it on the  **Start** screen, type **Word** to bring up the icon.

11. On the  **Activate Office** page, in the **E-mail address** box, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select  **Next**.

12. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Sign in**. Select  **OK** on the notification window.

13. In the  **First things first** dialog box, select **Accept**.

14. Close the  **Welcome to your new Office** dialog box.

    > The user interface can vary greatly depending on when you try to access Word 2016 in comparison to the installation process.

15. In the templates list, select  **Blank document**.

16. Type some text.

17. Select  **File**, and then select  **Save**.

18. Select  **Browse**.

19. In  **File name**, enter  **Meeting Report**, and then select  **Save**. 

20. Right-click the taskbar and then select  **Task Manager**.

21. In  **Task Manager**, select  **More details**.

22. On the  **Processes** tab, under **Background processes**, notice that **Microsoft Office Click-to-Run** appears. 

23. Select the  **Details** tab, and notice **OfficeClickToRun.exe** in the task list.

24. Select the  **Services** tab, and notice that the **ClickToRunSvc** service is running.

    >  **Note:** Check **Task Manager** for your deployment. These items will all be present in a successful install.

25. Close  **Task Manager**.

26. Close  **Word 2016**.


>  **Result**: You will have enabled centralized managed deployment of Office 365 ProPlus and implemented a standardized Microsoft Office configuration by using one version of Office.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
