# Module 7: Planning and configuring Exchange Online services
# Lab A: Configuring message transport in Exchange Online
  
### Scenario
  
The pilot project is going well at A. Datum Corporation. However, before you finish the pilot project and perform a full deployment, you need to confirm that you can configure Exchange Online settings to match the on-premises settings for options such as message transport.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure message transport settings.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 35 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1**, **20347A-LON-DS1**, **20347A-LON-CL1**, **20347A-LON-CL2**

User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**, **Adatum\\Beth**, **Adatum\\Francisco**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** with your unique Office 365 Name that displays in the online lab portal.
- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace the **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** with your unique hostdomain.com Name displayed in the online lab portal.


Please use only the virtual machines that your lab requires. This lab requires the following virtual machines:

- LON-DC1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL2
    - Sign in as  **LON-CL2\\Francisco** using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring message-transport settings
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum has several email transport settings configured in their on-premises Exchange environment. You need to ensure that you also can configure the same settings in Exchange Online, including:

- A custom send and receive connector that will enforce TLS when sending email messages to, or receiving them from, a partner organization.
- A transport rule that will apply a disclaimer to all messages sent to external users
- A transport rule that requires moderator approval for all messages sent to the manager distribution list.
- A journal rule that will retain a copy of all messages sent to and from members of the Development department.


You also need to verify that you can track messages sent between users on Office 365 and sent to external users.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a custom send and receive connector to enforce TLS

2. Create transport rules

3. Create a journal rule for members of the research department

4. Track internal and external message delivery


#### Task 1: Create a custom send and receive connector to enforce TLS
  
1. On LON-CL1, on the taskbar, select  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. In Microsoft Edge, in the  **search** box, type **https://portal.office.com**, and press Enter.

3. At the login page, sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

4. To open the Office 365 admin center, select  **Admin**.

5. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, on menu on the left, in  **Admin centers**, select  **Exchange**.

6. In the Exchange admin center, select  **mail flow**, and then select  **connectors**.

7. Select  **New**.

8. On the  **Select your mail flow scenario** page, in the **From** box, select **Office 365**.

9. In the  **To** box, select **Partner organization**, and then select  **Next**.

10. On the  **New connector** page, in the **Name** box, type **Humongous Insurance Outgoing**, and then select  **Next**.

11. Select  **Only when email messages are sent to these domains**, and then select  **Add**.

12. On the  **add domain** page, type **humongousinsurance.com**, select  **OK**, and then select  **Next**.

13. Select  **Use the MX record associated with the partner's domain**, and then select  **Next**.

14. Select the  **Always use Transport Layer Security (TLS) to secure the connection** check box, select **Issued by a trusted certificate authority (CA)**, and then select  **Next.**

15. On the  **Confirm your settings** page, select **Next**.

16. On the  **Validate this connector** page, select **Add**.

17. In the  **Send the test email to the address** box, type **postmaster@humongousinsurance.com**, select  **OK**, and then select  **Validate**.

18. Wait while validation completes, and then select  **Close**. 

19. On the  **Validation Result** page, select **Save**.

20. In the Warning window, select  **Yes**.

    >  **Note:** Validation of mail flow will fail because the connector is to a fictitious organization. This is expected behavior for this lab.

21. In the Exchange admin center, on the  **connectors** tab, select **New**.

22. On the  **Select your mail flow scenario** page, in the **From** box, select **Partner organization**.

23. In the  **To** box, select **Office 365**, and then select  **Next**.

24. On the  **New connector** page, in the **Name** box, type **Humongous Insurance Incoming**, and then select  **Next**.

25. Select  **Use the sender's domain**, and then select  **Next**.

26. Select  **Add**, type  **humongousinsurance.com**, select  **OK**, and then select  **Next.**

27. Select the  **Reject email messages if they aren't sent over TLS** check box, and then select **Next**.

28. On the  **Confirm your settings** page, select **Save**.



#### Task 2: Create transport rules
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center page, select  **rules**.

2. Select  **New**, and then select  **Apply disclaimers**.

3. In the new rule window, in the  **Name** box, type **A. Datum Disclaimer**.

4. In the  **Apply this rule if** box, select **The recipient is located**, select  **Outside the organization**, and then select  **OK**.

5. Select  **Enter text**.

6. In the specify disclaimer text window, type  **&lt;HR&gt; If you are not the intended recipient of this message, you must delete it.** and then select  **OK**.

7. Select  **Select one**.

8. In the specify fallback action window, select  **Wrap**, and then select  **OK**.

9. In the new rule window, select  **Save**.

10. If the Warning window appears, select  **Yes**.

11. In Exchange admin center, select  **New**, and then select  **Send messages to a moderator**.

12. In the new rule window, in the  **Name** box, type **Moderate Project Team**.

13. In the  **Apply the rule if** box, select **The recipient is a member of**, in the Select Members window, select  **Project Team**, select  **add**, and then select  **OK**.

14. In the  **Do the following** box, select **Forward the message for approval to**, select  **Beth Burke**, select  **add**, and then select  **OK**.

15. In the new rule window, select  **Save**.

16. On LON-CL2, on the taskbar, select  **Microsoft Edge**.

17. In Microsoft Edge, in the  **search** box, type **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.

18. Sign in as  **Francisco@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

19. In Office 365, select  **Outlook**.

20. In the Mail window, select  **New**.

21. In the  **To** field, type **alias@outlook.com**, where alias@outlook.com is the Microsoft account that you configured at the beginning of this course.

22. In the  **Subject** field, type **Disclaimer Test**.

23. In the message body, type  **This message will have a disclaimer**, and then select  **Send**.

24. Sign in to Outlook.com, and then verify that the message has the disclaimer  **If you are not the intended recipient of this message, you must delete it** added at the end of the message body. If the message is not in the Inbox, check the Junk folder.

25. In the Mail window in which you are signed is as Francisco, select  **New**.

26. In the  **To** field, type **Cai**.

27. In the  **Subject** field, type **Moderation Test**.

28. In the message body, type  **This message requires approval by Beth**, and then select  **Send**.

29. On LON-CL1, select  **Start**, type  **Outlook**, and then select  **Outlook**. 

30. Type  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and the password you created in Module 1 in the Windows Security dialog box.

31. In Outlook, read the approval request, and then select  **Approve**.

32. Close Outlook.



#### Task 3: Create a journal rule for members of the research department
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, select  **compliance management**, select  **journal rules**, and then select  **Select address**.

2. In the non-delivery reports window, select  **Browse**, select  **Beth Burke**, select  **OK**, and then select  **Save**.

3. In the Warning window, select  **OK**.

4. Select  **New**.

5. In the new journal rule window, in the  **Send journal reports to** box, type **journal@humongousinsurance.com**.

6. In the  **Name** box, type **Operations Messages**.

7. In the  **If the message is sent to or received from** box, select **A specific user or group**, select  **Operations**, select  **add**, and then select  **OK**.

    >  **Note:** If Operations doesn't show up in the list, type **operations@adatumyyxxx.hostdomain.com** in the box next to **Check names** and then select **Check names**.

8. In the  **Journal the following messages** box, select **All messages**, and then select  **Save**.



#### Task 4: Track internal and external message delivery
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, select  **mail flow**, and then select  **message trace**.

2. Review the available search options, and then select  **search**.

3. In the Message Trace results window, double-click the message sent to  **alias@outlook.com**.

4. Review the information in the message, including the message events that show that the disclaimer was applied.

5. Select  **Close**.

6. Double-click the message sent from Francisco to Cai.

7. Review the information in the message, including that the message was sent for moderation.

8. Select  **Close**.

9. In the Message Trace Results window, select  **Close**.


>  **Result**: After completing the exercise, you will have configured message-transport settings.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why did you configure the journal rule to send messages to journal@humongousinsurance.com instead of an Office 365 mailbox?

**Question** 
What formatting options are there for disclaimers in a transport rule?

**Question** 
Selecting the Enable safe list option in the connection filter reduces the risk of false positives. 

**Question** 
What is the difference between spam and high-confidence spam?

**Question** 
How does Office 365 differentiate between public and private computers that attempt to connect to it?

**Question** 
The default configuration for mobile devices quarantines all devices until an administrator approves them.

**Question** 
Your organization currently is using Gmail and Google Docs, and has decided to migrate to Office 365 for email and file sharing. Which migration type should you use so your end users experience the least amount of downtime?
  - Cutover Exchange migration
  - Staged Exchange migration
  - IMAP migration
  - PST migration
  - Full hybrid configuration

**Question** 
Your organization has an on-premises Exchange Server 2010 deployment, and wants to migrate to Office 365. Your organization has 3,000 mailboxes, with an average mailbox size of 1 GB. Which migration type should you use?
  - Cutover Exchange migration
  - Staged Exchange migration
  - IMAP migration
  - PST migration
  - Full hybrid configuration

**Question** 
A cutover migration batch continues synchronizing until you remove it.



# Lab B: Configuring email protection and client policies
  
### Scenario
  
The pilot project is going well at A. Datum. Before finishing it and moving into a full deployment, you need to confirm that you can configure the Exchange Online settings to match the on-premises settings for options such as anti-spam and antivirus settings, and client access policies.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will have:
  - Configured anti-spam and antivirus settings
  - Configured client access policies

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 35 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1**,  **20347A-LON-DS1**,  **20347A-LON-CL1, 20347A-LON-CL2**

User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**, **Adatum\\Beth**, and  **LON-CL2\\Francisco**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:
  - Where you see references to  **AdatumYYXXXX.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **AdatumYYXXXX** with your unique Office 365 Name that displays in the online lab portal.
  - Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace the *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and replace the  *hostdomain.com* with your unique hostdomain.com Name that displays in the online lab portal.


Please use only the virtual machines that your lab requires. This lab requires the following virtual machines: 

- LON-DC1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1
    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL2
    - Sign in as  **LON-CL2\\Francisco** using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring email protection
  
### Scenario
  
You also need to explore the anti-spam and antivirus settings that are available in Exchange Online, and you must
  - Configure a policy to ensure that an administrator account is notified when Exchange Online receives a message that contains malware. 
  - Ensure that internal users are notified when their messages are not delivered.
  - Ensure that you can block all email from IP addresses that you specify.
  - Ensure that the Project Team receives all messages, even if there is a high likelihood that the message is spam.
  - Ensure that Exchange Online quarantines all messages for other users if there is a high probability that the message is spam.
  - Enable Advanced Threat Protection for users of the Sales . 


The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure the malware filter

2. Configure the connection filter

3. Configure the spam filter

4. Test the spam-filter settings (optional)

5. Enable Advanced Threat Protection



#### Task 1: Configure the malware filter
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, select  **protection**, and then select  **malware filter**.

2. Select  **Default**, and then select  **Edit**.

3. In the Default window, select  **settings**.

4. Under Notifications, select the  **Notify internal senders** check box.

5. Select the  **Notify administrator about undelivered messages from internal senders** check box.

6. In the  **Administrator email address** box, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number.

7. Select the  **Notify administrator about undelivered messages from external senders** check box.

8. In the  **Administrator email address** box, type **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select  **Save**.



#### Task 2: Configure the connection filter
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, select  **connection filter**.

2. Select  **Default**, and then select  **Edit**.

3. In the Default window, select  **connection filtering**.

4. Under IP Block list, select  **Add**.

5. In the add blocked IP address window, type  **192.168.0.0/24**, and then select  **OK**.

6. Select the  **Enable safe list** check box, and then select **Save**.



#### Task 3: Configure the spam filter
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, select  **spam filter**.

2. Select  **Default**, and then select  **Edit**.

3. In the Default window, select  **spam and bulk actions**.

4. In the  **High confidence spam** box, select **Quarantine message**, and then select  **Save**.

5. Select  **New**.

6. In the new spam filter policy window, in the  **Name** box, type **Sales spam policy**.

7. In the  **Spam** box, select **Prepend subject line with text**.

8. In the  **High confidence spam** box, select **Move message to Junk Email folder**.

9. In the  **Prepend subject line with this text** box, type **Junk:**.

10. Scroll to the bottom of the window, and under  **Applied To**, in the  **If** box, select **The recipient is a member of**.

11. In the  **Select Members** window, next to **Check names**, enter **Sales@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, select  **Check names**, and then select **OK**.

12. Select  **Save**.

  > Note: To apply spam filter rules to Office 365 groups, you will need to apply the filter directly to the email address of the group.  


#### Task 4: Test the spam-filter settings (optional)
  
1. In a new Edge window, sign in to Outlook.com using the Microsoft account you created for this course.

2. Create a new message to send to  **Kendra@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number.

3. In the body of the message, include the text  **XJS\*C4JDBQADN1.NSBN3\*2IDNEN\*GTUBE-STANDARD-ANTI-UBE-TEST-EMAIL\*C.34X**, and then send the message.

4. Create a new message to send to  **Francisco@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number.

5. In the body of the message, include the text  **XJS\*C4JDBQADN1.NSBN3\*2IDNEN\*GTUBE-STANDARD-ANTI-UBE-TEST-EMAIL\*C.34X**, and then send the message.

6. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, select  **protection**, and then select  **quarantine**.

7. Verify that the message sent to Francisco is in quarantine, but the message sent to Kendra is not.

8. Select the message sent to Francisco, select  **Release Message**, and then select  **Release selected message(s) to ALL recipients**.

9. In the Warning window, select  **Yes**.

10. When processing is complete, select  **Close**.

11. On LON-CL2, in Outlook on the web, verify that the message was delivered.



#### Task 5: Enable Advanced Threat Protection
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CL1**.

2. In Exchange admin center, select  **advanced threats**, and then select  **safe attachments**.

3. Select  **New**.

4. In the  **new safe attachments policy** window, in the **Name** box, type **Sales policy**.

5. Under  **Safe attachments unknown malware response**, select  **Replace - Block the attachments with detected malware, continue to deliver the message**.

6. Below  **Applied To** in the **If...** box, select **The recipient is a member of**.

7. In the  **Select Members** window, next to **Check names** enter **Sales@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, select  **Check names**, select **add**, and then select  **OK**.

8. In the  **new safe attachments policy** window, select **Save**.

9. In the  **Warning** window, select **OK**.

  > Note: To apply spam filter rules to Office 365 groups, you must apply the filter directly to the email address of the group.  


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured anti-spam and antivirus settings.


## Exercise 2: Configuring client access policies
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wants to be able to restrict some options for Outlook on the Web and mobile clients. You need to configure policies for Outlook Web App, mobile device access, and mailboxes. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure an Outlook Web App policy
2. Configure device access using client access rules
3. Configure mobile-device access
4. Configure a mailbox policy for mobile devices 
5. Validate mobile-device management policies (optional)



#### Task 1: Configure an Outlook Web App policy
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, select  **permissions**, and then select  **Outlook Web App policies**.

2. Select  **New**.

3. In the new Outlook Web App mailbox policy window, in the  **Policy name** box, type **Limited features**.

4. Clear the following check boxes:
    -  **Instant messaging**
    -  **Text messaging**
    -  **Unified messaging**
    -  **LinkedIn contact sync**
    -  **Journaling**

5. Under  **Private computer or OWA for devices**, clear the  **Direct file access** check box, and then select **Save**.

6. Select  **recipients**, select **mailboxes,** select **Kendra Sexton**, and then select  **Edit**.

7. In the Kendra Sexton window, select  **mailbox features**.

8. Under  **Email Connectivity**, select  **View details**.

9. In the Outlook Web App mailbox policy window, select  **Browse**, select  **Limited features**, select  **OK**, and then select  **Save**.

10. In the Kendra Sexton window, select  **Save**.

11. On LON-CL1, select  **Start**, type  **Outlook** and then select **Outlook**. If prompted, type  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and the password you created in Module 1 in the Windows Security dialog box.

12. Select  **New Email**.

13. In the new email window, in the  **To** box, type **Kendra@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select **Check Names**.

14. In the  **Subject** box, type **Attachment Test**.

15. In the ribbon, select  **Attach File**, and then select  **Browse This PC**.

16. In the Insert File window, browse to  **C:\\Windows\\Logs\\DISM**, select  **dism**, and then select  **Insert**.

17. Select  **Send**.

18. On LON-CL2, in Outlook on the web, sign out, and then sign in again as  **Kendra@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password you created in Module 1.

19. On the Outlook page, select your time zone and select  **Save**.

20. Read the new **Attachment Test** message.

21. Select the message attachment.

22. Select  **OK** to close the message, indicating that you do not have permission to download files.

>  **Note:** In some cases, it may take a few minutes for the new Outlook Web App mailbox policy to take effect. Until it takes affect, you can save the attachment.


#### Task 2: Configure device access using client access rules

1. On LON-CL1, select **Start** and type **PowerShell**

2. Right-click **Windows PowerShell** and select **Run as administrator**.

3. In the User Account Control dialog, provide the following credentials:
    - User name:  **Administrator**
    - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

    >  **Note:** You can copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine.

4. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

    ```
    $credential = Get-Credential
    ```

5. In the  **Enter Credentials** dialog box, in the **User name** box, type **Olivia@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number.

    > **Note**: You assigned Olivia to the Organization Management role group in the previous module.

6. In the  **Password** box, type the password you created in Module 1, and then select  **OK**.

7. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    $Session = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/ -Credential $credential -Authentication Basic -AllowRedirection
    ```

8. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Import-PSSession $Session
    ```

9. Type the following command press Enter, press Y, then press Enter:

    ```
    New-ClientAccessRule -Name "Block ActiveSync" -Action DenyAccess -AnyOfProtocols ExchangeActiveSync -ExceptAnyOfClientIPAddressesOrRanges 192.168.10.1/24
    ```

  **Test the client access rule**

10. Type the following command, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Test-ClientAccessRule  -User Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -AuthenticationType BasicAuthentication -Protocol ExchangeActiveSync -RemoteAddress 192.168.10.10 -RemotePort 443
    ```

    > The command should return the client access rule you created earlier.

11. Type the following command, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Test-ClientAccessRule  -User Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -AuthenticationType BasicAuthentication -Protocol OutlookWebApp -RemoteAddress 172.17.17.26 -RemotePort 443
    ```

    > The command should return nothing, because the parameters do not match the client access rule.


#### Task 3: Configure mobile-device access
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, select  **mobile**, and then select  **mobile device access**.

2. Select  **edit**.

3. In the Exchange ActiveSync access settings window, select  **Quarantine - Let me decide to block or allow later**.

4. Under  **Quarantine Notification Email Messages**, select  **Add**, select  **Beth Burke**, select  **add**, and then select  **OK**.

5. In the Exchange ActiveSync access settings window, select  **Save**.



#### Task 4: Configure a mailbox policy for mobile devices
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, on the  **mobile** menu, select **mobile device mailbox policies**.

2. Select  **Default (default)**, and then select  **Edit**.

3. In the Default window, select  **security**, and then select the  **Require a password** check box.

4. Select the  **Allow simple passwords** check box.

5. Select the  **Minimum password length** check box, enter a value of **4**, and then select  **Save**.



#### Task 5: Validate mobile-device management policies (optional)
  
1. On your mobile device, add a new ActiveSync account for Francisco Chaves.

2. If Autodiscover does not detect the server name, enter  **outlook.office365.com**.

3. Your device will be placed into quarantine, and you must approve the device before you can send and receive messages.

4. After you configure the Exchange ActiveSync account, the security settings from the mobile device mailbox policy will apply, and you may be prompted to create a password on your device.

5. When you are done testing, you can delete the account from your mobile device.

6. Leave the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured client access policies.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why did you configure different anti-spam settings for members of the sales group?

**Question** 
Why is it important to require a password on mobile devices?



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
