# Lab Answer Key:  Module 12: Monitoring and troubleshooting Microsoft Office 365
# Lab: Monitoring and troubleshooting Office 365
  
## Exercise 1: Monitoring Office 365
  
#### Task 1: Send an email to a nonexistent domain
  
1. On LON-CL1, on the taskbar, select  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. Browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**, and then sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, using the password you created in Module 1.

3. Select  **Outlook**, and then select  **New message**.

4. In the  **To** text box, type **user@alt.none**.

5. Enter a subject and some body text, and then select  **Send**.


#### Task 2: Track mail delivery
  
1. Wait for the delivery failure message to appear, and select the message.

2. Note the reason for the failure ("The Domain Name System (DNS) reported that the recipient's domain does not exist.").

3. In the body of the message, select **...** (Show message history).

4. Below the text **Diagnostic information for administrators:**, select the text including the phrase "**Generating server**" down to "**X-OriginatorOrg: adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**" and then press Ctrl+C to copy it to the Clipboard.

5. Press Ctrl+T to create a new tab in Microsoft Edge.

6. In the new tab, browse to  **https://testconnectivity.microsoft.com**.

7. On the  **Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer** page, select the **Message Analyzer** tab.

8. Under Message Header Analyzer, paste the message, and then select  **Analyze headers**.

9. Note the diagnostic information and the time taken for the message to be rejected.

10. Select  **Clear** to reset the Message Header Analyzer.


#### Task 3: Send an email to a nonexistent user
  
1. In Microsoft Edge, select Beth Burke's  **Mail** tab.

2. Select  **New message**, and then in the  **To** text box, type **x154b2r56@outlook.com**.

3. Enter a subject and some body text, and then select  **Send**.


#### Task 4: Track mail delivery using Microsoft Support and Recovery Assistant for Office 365
  
1. Start Outlook.

2. In Edge, open a new tab and navigate to **https://diagnostics.outlook.com/**.

3. Select **Download now**, select **Save**, and then select **Run**.

4. In the Security Warning dialog, select **Install**.

5. In the **Microsoft Support and Recovery Assistant for Office 365**, review the Microsoft Services Agreement and select **I agree**.

6. Select **Outlook**, then select **Next**.

7. Select **I'm having problems sending, receiving, or finding email messages**, then select **Next**.

8. Select **Yes**, then select **Next**.

9. Enter the email address **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and the password you created in Module 1, then select **Next**.

    > It may take several minutes for the tool to sign in.

10. Under **Are you having a problem with a specific message?**, select **Yes**, then select **I sent a message, but it wasn't received**, then select **Next**.

    > You may need to give permission for the tool to access Microsoft Outlook.  
    > Minimize the tool and in the Microsoft Outlook dialog select **Allow access for** and then select **5 minutes** from the drop-down.
    > Select **Allow** and then select Microsoft Support and Recovery Assistant for the Office 365 from the task bar.

11. Under **Messages (limited to the past 7 days)**, select the message to **x154b2r56@outlook.com**, then select **Next**.

12. Read the resulting message.

13. Select **Next**, then select **My problem's not fixed, but the tool helped me figure out how to fix it**, then select **No**.

14. Select **Submit**.


#### Task 5: Analyze mail flow
  
1. On Beth's **Mail** tab, in the Office 365 portal, select  **Admin**.

2. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, expand  **Admin centers**, select  **Exchange**, and then select  **mail flow**.

3. In  **mail flow**, select  **message trace**.

4. In  **message trace**, next to Sender, select  **add sender**.

5. In the  **Select Members** dialog box, select **Beth Burke**, select  **add**, and then select  **OK**.

6. Under Date range, select  **Past 24 hours**.

7. Under Delivery status, select  **Failed**, and then select  **search**. Note the messages.

8. Double-click the message to view the sender, recipient, message size, ID, and IP address information.

9. Review the message processing events: Receive, Submit, Spam Diagnostics, and Fail for the nonexistent domain, and Submit, Receive, Spam Diagnostics, and Fail for the nonexistent user.

10. Close the Message Trace window.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have used the Message Header Analyzer to identify why email failed to deliver and used the Microsoft Support and Recovery Assistant for Office 365.




## Exercise 2: Monitoring service health and analyzing reports
  
#### Task 1: View Office 365 service health
  
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, select  **Home**.

2. Expand **Health**, and then select  **Service health**. 

3. Select **Incidents** and review any incidents that appear

5. Select **Advisories**, expand any services listed, and review the advisories.

6. Under **A. Datum**, select **View history**.

7. Select any entry to see further details about incident. Details appear in a new blade.

8. Close the issue blade.


#### Task 2: View reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center
  
1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, expand  **Reports** and select **Usage**, 

2. Select **Select a report** and under **Exchange**, select **Email activity**.

    >  **Note:** There might be little or no data shown because there is not much mailbox usage in the lab environment.

3. In the menu to the left, under **Reports**, select **Security &amp; compliance**

4. On the  **Security &amp; compliance** page, note the reports that are available.

5. In the left navigation menu, expand **Admin centers** and select **Security &amp; compliance**.

6. Expand **Reports** and select **Dashboard**.

7. Select the **Sent and received email** report

8. On the **Sent and recieved email report** page, select  **View details table** and note the table.  Then select **View report** and note the graph.

9. Select **Dashboard**.

10. Select the **Malware detected in email** report.

11. Select **Dashboard**.

12. Select the **Spam detections** report.

13. Close Microsoft Edge.

14. Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have monitored the health of Office 365 services and viewed reports in the Office 365 admin center.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
